NAIROBI, June 13 (Xinhua) -- Kenyan President Uhuru Kenyatta on Monday commissioned the national forensic laboratory to strengthen the war against cybercrimes that had escalated amid rapid growth of the country's digital economy. Kenyatta said the government will leverage training and increased public engagement to root out emerging security threats like cybercrimes, terrorism and human trafficking. "The laboratory will bolster action on cybercrimes and crypto currency crimes that have escalated this decade. It will also aid prosecution of cybercriminals," said Kenyatta Nairobi, the capital of Kenya. He added that the forensic laboratory, funded by the state to the tune of 4.1 billion shillings (about 34.98 million U.S. dollars) will also fast-track probe into serious crimes like murder, robbery with violence and rape. Identified as a flagship security project under Kenya's Vision 2030 transformation blue-print, the modern laboratory will be conducting forensic analysis of computer and mobile phones besides maintaining inventory of data. Other functions of the laboratory will include analysis of deleted and active digital files, recovery of deleted or encrypted emails, videos, internet sites and short message service (SMS), Kenyatta said. He said the facility will also help uncover passwords, conduct forensic SIM card analysis, extraction of data from mobile phones and assist in the presentation of expert forensic evidence in court by sleuths. The digital forensic laboratory, to be domiciled at the state of the art facility, will help identify, seize, acquire and analyse all electronic devices related to cyber-enabled criminal activities reported to police, said Kenyatta. Fred Matiang'i, Cabinet Secretary in the Ministry of Interior and National Coordination said that with the launch of a modern laboratory to aid the war against cybercrimes, the growth of the country's digital economy would encounter minimal disruptions. According to Matiang'i, the government will leverage retraining of security personnel, enhanced public-private partnership and awareness to ease identification, arrest and prosecution of cybercriminals. He added that ministries of health, ICT and internal security will also strengthen collaboration to help detect and thwart cybercrimes that have undermined digitization of public services. Martha Koome, Chief Justice noted that with the launch of a modern forensic laboratory, it will be possible to speed up prosecution of individuals involved in cybercrime.  ■