EDINBURGH, Britain, June 26 (Xinhua) -- Scottish officials and university heads have said that they are willing to enhance communication and cooperation with China. Cooperation between Scotland and China has achieved progress in various areas in recent years. The Scottish government attaches great importance to the exchanges and cooperation with China, Angus Robertson, Cabinet Secretary for the Constitution, External Affairs and Culture of the Scottish Government, said during a meeting with Chinese Ambassador to Britain Zheng Zeguang on Thursday. Scotland has carried out fruitful cooperation with China in economy and trade, education, culture and tourism, Robertson said, noting that more and more Chinese students are coming to Scotland to study and that the Chinese community has become an important part of Scotland's diverse society, making positive contributions to local economic and social development. The Scottish government is willing to further enhance friendly communication and cooperation with China to bring more benefits to both peoples, he added. In response, Zheng said that in recent years, Scotland has established friendly partnerships with China's Shandong Province and a few cities, with fruitful exchanges and cooperation in trade and investment, education, and culture. China stands ready to continue to strengthen communication and exchange, and expand friendly cooperation with Scotland, Zheng added. At another meeting on Wednesday, Jacqueline McLaren, Lord Provost of Glasgow, Scotland's largest city, told Zheng that in recent years, Glasgow has made positive progress in the mutually beneficial cooperation with Dalian, Tianjin, and some other Chinese cities. Strengthening exchanges and cooperation with China is crucial to promoting Glasgow's international development strategy and Glasgow welcomes more investors, students and tourists from China, McLaren added. In recent years, Chinese and Scottish universities have also enjoyed strong ties. The University of Edinburgh, for example, has developed practical cooperation and exchanges with top Chinese universities, including Shanghai Jiao Tong University and Zhejiang University. During a meeting on Tuesday, Peter Mathieson, Principal and Vice-chancellor of the University of Edinburgh, told Zheng that China is an important partner of the university and he welcomes more outstanding Chinese students. He looks forward to further deepening the exchange and cooperation in the fields of teaching and scientific research. Principal and Vice-Chancellor of the University of Glasgow Antonio Muscatelli said at a meeting on Wednesday with Zheng that academic exchanges with Chinese universities are mutually beneficial and in the interests of both sides.  ■