 Visitors play games on a computer network at the Bucharest Tech Week in Bucharest, Romania, on June 19, 2022. Bucharest Tech Week is an annual tech event aimed at bringing together new trends in technology from across the world and the application of new scientific discoveries in everyday life. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)  Children play soccer with robotic players at the Bucharest Tech Week in Bucharest, Romania, on June 19, 2022. Bucharest Tech Week is an annual tech event aimed at bringing together new trends in technology from across the world and the application of new scientific discoveries in everyday life. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)  People look at an M2+ smart electric vehicle at the Bucharest Tech Week in Bucharest, Romania, on June 19, 2022. Bucharest Tech Week is an annual tech event aimed at bringing together new trends in technology from across the world and the application of new scientific discoveries in everyday life. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)  Children wearing virtual reality headsets are seen at the Bucharest Tech Week in Bucharest, Romania, on June 19, 2022. Bucharest Tech Week is an annual tech event aimed at bringing together new trends in technology from across the world and the application of new scientific discoveries in everyday life. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)  Children wearing virtual reality headsets are seen at the Bucharest Tech Week in Bucharest, Romania, on June 19, 2022. Bucharest Tech Week is an annual tech event aimed at bringing together new trends in technology from across the world and the application of new scientific discoveries in everyday life. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)  Children wearing virtual reality headsets are seen at the Bucharest Tech Week in Bucharest, Romania, on June 19, 2022. Bucharest Tech Week is an annual tech event aimed at bringing together new trends in technology from across the world and the application of new scientific discoveries in everyday life. (Photo by Cristian Cristel/Xinhua)