LOS ANGELES, June 3 (Xinhua) -- More than 3,500 brands in the music industry from across the globe participated in a leading exhibition launched in Southern California on Friday. The 2022 National Association of Music Merchants (NAMM) Show, one of the world's biggest music industry trade shows, was held in Anaheim Convention Center, showcasing the latest products and technologies in music, sound and entertainment sectors. The event, running from Friday to Sunday, offered participants a dynamic way to experience a wide array of the latest music instruments and innovations, educational sessions and live concerts. The annual show resumed in-person exhibition this year after cancellation in 2021 due to the COVID-19 pandemic. However, the number of exhibitors from abroad dropped for risks in international travels. The Pearl River Piano Group, China's major piano manufacturer, has sent 40 first-class pianos from China to the show, among which are the Kayserburg pianos, which combined German craftsmanship with the latest advancements in acoustics and manufacturing technology. Leng Tshua, director of global sales and marketing of Pearl River Piano, told Xinhua that North America is a very important market for the company. In recent years, the brand has gained increasing recognition among global users including American customers. The Chinese company hopes to reach out to more dealers and music lovers at the show, and will make long-term efforts to build brand awareness, Tshua said. Yamaha, a music and sound company, brought to the show its latest products and technologies. "We expect to reconnect with dealers and customers worldwide, and showcase our latest products at the biggest show of the music industry since the pandemic," Gary Klugman, director of marketing at Yamaha Corporation of America, told Xinhua. For the first time, select content and experiences from the 2022 NAMM show are shared through a new digital interactive platform to exhibitors, attendees and participants from around the world who cannot participate in person.  ■