 People work after a train accident in Rome, Italy, on June 3, 2022. A high-speed train connecting Italy's northern city of Turin and the southern port city of Naples had an accident in a tunnel in Rome on Friday afternoon, local police said. According to news reports, the last car of a train that carried about 250 passengers derailed while approaching Roma Termini, the city's main railway station. There were no serious injuries, and police said the passengers were evacuated and offered alternative transportation without major incidents. (Xinhua) ROME, June 3 (Xinhua) -- A high-speed train connecting Italy's northern city of Turin and the southern port city of Naples had an accident in a tunnel in Rome on Friday afternoon, local police said. According to news reports, the last car of a train that carried about 250 passengers derailed while approaching Roma Termini, the city's main railway station. There were no serious injuries, and police said the passengers were evacuated and offered alternative transportation without major incidents. Police did not say what caused the accident. The high-speed rail line was temporarily closed pending further investigation. The accident took place around 2 p.m. local time. Trenitalia, the country's primary rail operator, called the event a "technical inconvenience." The Serenissima Tunnel, where the accident occurred, is located on the eastern side of Rome. In a separate incident, a head-on collision between a heavy truck and a food van near Strevi in northern Italy left five people dead and two others seriously injured on Friday. ■  People work after a train accident in Rome, Italy, on June 3, 2022. A high-speed train connecting Italy's northern city of Turin and the southern port city of Naples had an accident in a tunnel in Rome on Friday afternoon, local police said. According to news reports, the last car of a train that carried about 250 passengers derailed while approaching Roma Termini, the city's main railway station. There were no serious injuries, and police said the passengers were evacuated and offered alternative transportation without major incidents. (Xinhua)  Members of a rescue team work after a train accident inside a tunnel in Rome, Italy, on June 3, 2022. A high-speed train connecting Italy's northern city of Turin and the southern port city of Naples had an accident in a tunnel in Rome on Friday afternoon, local police said. According to news reports, the last car of a train that carried about 250 passengers derailed while approaching Roma Termini, the city's main railway station. There were no serious injuries, and police said the passengers were evacuated and offered alternative transportation without major incidents. (Xinhua)  People work after a train accident in Rome, Italy, on June 3, 2022. A high-speed train connecting Italy's northern city of Turin and the southern port city of Naples had an accident in a tunnel in Rome on Friday afternoon, local police said. According to news reports, the last car of a train that carried about 250 passengers derailed while approaching Roma Termini, the city's main railway station. There were no serious injuries, and police said the passengers were evacuated and offered alternative transportation without major incidents. (Xinhua)  People work after a train accident in Rome, Italy, on June 3, 2022. A high-speed train connecting Italy's northern city of Turin and the southern port city of Naples had an accident in a tunnel in Rome on Friday afternoon, local police said. According to news reports, the last car of a train that carried about 250 passengers derailed while approaching Roma Termini, the city's main railway station. There were no serious injuries, and police said the passengers were evacuated and offered alternative transportation without major incidents. (Xinhua)