 People take part in a celebration of Juneteenth in Prospect Park in the Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States, June 19, 2022. Celebrated on June 19, the holiday marks the day in 1865 when Union Major General Gordon Granger issued General Order No. 3 in Galveston, Texas, emancipating the remaining enslaved people in the state. For enslaved Americans in Texas, freedom came two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. (Photo by Michael Nagle/Xinhua)  People take part in a celebration of Juneteenth in Prospect Park in the Brooklyn borough of New York, the United States, June 19, 2022. Celebrated on June 19, the holiday marks the day in 1865 when Union Major General Gordon Granger issued General Order No. 3 in Galveston, Texas, emancipating the remaining enslaved people in the state. For enslaved Americans in Texas, freedom came two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. (Photo by Michael Nagle/Xinhua)  People take part in a celebration of Juneteenth in San Francisco, the United States, June 18, 2022. Celebrated on June 19, the holiday marks the day in 1865 when Union Major General Gordon Granger issued General Order No. 3 in Galveston, Texas, emancipating the remaining enslaved people in the state. For enslaved Americans in Texas, freedom came two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)  People take part in a celebration of Juneteenth in San Francisco, the United States, June 18, 2022. Celebrated on June 19, the holiday marks the day in 1865 when Union Major General Gordon Granger issued General Order No. 3 in Galveston, Texas, emancipating the remaining enslaved people in the state. For enslaved Americans in Texas, freedom came two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)  People take part in a celebration of Juneteenth in San Francisco, the United States, June 18, 2022. Celebrated on June 19, the holiday marks the day in 1865 when Union Major General Gordon Granger issued General Order No. 3 in Galveston, Texas, emancipating the remaining enslaved people in the state. For enslaved Americans in Texas, freedom came two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)  People take part in a celebration of Juneteenth in San Francisco, the United States, June 18, 2022. Celebrated on June 19, the holiday marks the day in 1865 when Union Major General Gordon Granger issued General Order No. 3 in Galveston, Texas, emancipating the remaining enslaved people in the state. For enslaved Americans in Texas, freedom came two and a half years after President Abraham Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. (Photo by Liu Yilin/Xinhua)