SANTIAGO, June 23 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. interest rate hikes coupled with a tighter monetary policy will lead to a sharp slowdown in Latin America's economy, a Chilean economist has said. The dominance of the U.S. dollar allows the Federal Reserve to set global monetary policy and puts other central banks in the position "of being followers," said Rodrigo Saens, an academic from the Faculty of Economics and Business at Chile's University of Talca. The Fed's "surprising or unexpected" hikes in the interest rate encourage investors to take their money out of Latin America and deposit it in dollar-denominated U.S. accounts, said the expert. With the hikes, the Fed aims to rein in inflation by slowing down spending in the U.S. economy. "However, the problem the Fed and the rest of the world's central banks have is that today inflation does not just arise from the demand side but also from the supply side," said Saens, referring to shortages of certain commodities and components. Due to the crisis in Ukraine, "the cost of fertilizers, grains and fuels has increased significantly, which has put additional pressure on demand-pull inflation on the cost side and on the supply side," Saens said. In Chile, the rise in the price of the dollar translates into an increase in the price of trade, especially imported goods, spurring more inflation, said the expert. "The transfer to prices of the rise in the dollar generates even more inflation than we already have, 11.5 percent in 12 months. The price of fuel is the best example," said Saens. "In Chile, the price of fuel has increased not only because of the rise in the international price of oil, but also because of the rise in the price of the dollar against Chilean pesos," he said. "If inflation was already a headache for the authorities, an additional appreciation of the dollar puts more pressure on the Central Bank of Chile to raise the monetary policy rate (MPR) even more," he warned. "The increase in the MPR will further cool down the Chilean economy, making the risk of recession even more evident," he added. As in Chile, the appreciation of the dollar and its impact on inflation will push Latin American governments to withdraw monetary and fiscal stimulus measures launched due to the COVID-19 pandemic, he said. "We are seeing it at this juncture. The Federal Reserve increases the interest rate and the rest of the central banks, to prevent the appreciation of the dollar from generating price pressures in their respective countries, must also raise their interest rates," he said.  ■