SYDNEY, June 13 (Xinhua) -- A new report from a think tank, the Australia Institute, has revealed that the vast majority, 95.6 percent, of Australia's liquefied natural gas (LNG) export industry is foreign-owned, a likely driver of volatile domestic gas prices. The study, released to the public on Monday, included a survey that showed the average Australian vastly underestimated how little of the nation's 62.5 billion Australian dollars (about 44 billion U.S. dollars) LNG industry is locally owned. Australia's largest gas exporter, BHP, which is locally referred to as the "big Australia", is in fact just six percent Australian-owned. "As gas companies lobby for ever-more expansion for export profit, Australians are entitled to ask how this industry is serving the national interest," said David Richardson, report author and senior research fellow at the Australia Institute. "Households are paying a fortune to compete with the gas export industry, run by majority foreign-owned companies who pay little or no tax." Since March, gas prices in Australia have been highly volatile. According to the Australian Energy Market Operator (AEMO), wholesale gas prices have surged from around 11 Australian dollars (about 7 U.S. dollars) per Gigajoule (GJ) in March to nearly 40 Australian dollars (about 28 U.S. dollars) per GJ in June. The surge has been largely attributed to domestic shortages driven by unexpected cold weather and supply factors from the conflict in Ukraine, and forced the AEMO to cap prices in parts of the nation. It has also put pressure on policymakers to divert LNG earmarked for export to the domestic market. Richardson said the Australian government should consider a tax on profits from exported gas "to ensure Australians get a fair share of our natural resources and this 62.5 billion Australian dollars industry." He added that the findings highlight the need to examine foreign ownership in Australia more broadly. The research also reveals that the top 20 companies listed on the Australian stock exchange are, on average, 80 percent foreign-owned, with U.S. ownership alone almost triple Australian ownership. The report found that a number of large Australian-founded companies are majority foreign-owned including the national airline Qantas, which is 62 percent foreign-owned, telecom giant Telstra, which is 51 percent foreign-owned, and the Commonwealth Bank of Australia, which is now 81 percent foreign-owned.  ■