TOKYO, June 2 (Xinhua) -- Tokyo stocks closed lower on Thursday, following Wall Street's overnight retreat and renewed concerns over the U.S. Federal Reserve's aggressive monetary policy and potential plans to hike taxes amid rising inflation. The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average dropped 44.01 points, or 0.16 percent, from Wednesday to close the day at 27,413.88. The broader Topix index, meanwhile, lost 12.25 points, or 0.63 percent, to finish at 1,926.39. Dealers here said that trading got off to a lackluster start on the heels of Wall Street's overnight retreat, as U.S. manufacturing data for May coming in ahead of analysts' expectation raised the prospect of further rate hikes by the Fed to combat soaring inflation. "While investors would usually react positively to this kind of report, they acted oppositely as it ended up stoking fears about a possible acceleration in inflation," Maki Sawada, a strategist in Nomura Securities Co.'s investment content department, was quoted as saying. But the yen's retreat against the U.S. dollar incentivized some investors to seek out export-oriented issues whose overall competitiveness in global markets gets a boost when the yen declines versus its major counterparts and firms' profits increase when repatriated, brokers here highlighted. By the close of play, mining, pharmaceutical, and precision instrument issues comprised those that declined the most on the Prime Market, and issues that fell outpaced those that rose by 1,192 to 579, while 66 ended the day unchanged. Among heavy-hitters losing ground, Fujitsu was the biggest loser on the Nikkei, slumping 4.4 percent, with drugmaker Astellas Pharma the Nikkei' second biggest decliner, dropping 4.1 percent. Other notable decliners included Sony Group retreating 3.2 percent, while healthcare firm M3 ended the day 3.3 percent down. Exporters found favor on the yen's retreat and among these automakers advanced. These included Subaru gaining 1.2 percent, while Isuzu Motors edged up 0.4 percent. Mazda Motor, for it part, added 0.5 percent by the close. On the Prime Market on Thursday, 1,095.37 million shares changed hands, dropping from Wednesday's volume of 1,228.85 million shares. The turnover on the penultimate trading day of the week came to 2,546.37 billion yen (19.62 billion U.S. dollars).  ■