HOUSTON, June 20 (Xinhua) -- Nearly 5,000 delegates attending Texas GOP Convention over the weekend have overwhelmingly passed a resolution rejecting the results of the 2020 U.S. presidential election, according to a statement on the Republican Party of Texas website on Monday. "We hold that acting President Joseph Robinette Biden Jr. was not legitimately elected by the people of the United States," the resolution stated. "We believe that the 2020 election violated Article 1 and 2 of the U.S. Constitution, that various secretaries of state illegally circumvented their state legislatures in conducting their elections in multiple ways, including by allowing ballots to be received after November 3, 2020," the resolution read. It added that they believe substantial election fraud in key metropolitan areas significantly affected the results in five key states in favor of Biden. "Texas Republicans rightly have no faith in the 2020 election results, and we don't care how many times the elites tell us we have to," Republican Party of Texas Chairman Matt Rinaldi said in the statement. The newly adopted Texas Republicans' 2022 platform, outlined in a 40-page document, also called on the United States to leave the United Nations. "The United Nations is a detriment to the sovereignty of the United States and other countries; because of this we support ... Our withdrawal from the current United Nations," the platform announced. "Texas retains the right to secede from the United States, and the Texas Legislature should be called upon to pass a referendum consistent thereto," the document continued, accusing the federal government of impairing Texas' right of self-government. The Republicans in the second largest U.S. state, where the third worst mass school shooting in U.S. history just happened weeks ago, also asserted that "all gun control is a violation of the Second Amendment and our God given rights," straightly rejecting a new bipartisan gun proposal in the U.S. Capitol. The platform also called for enacting "legislation to abolish abortion by immediately securing the right to life and equal protection of the laws to all preborn children from the moment of fertilization." "We can't compromise with Democrats who have a different and incompatible vision for our future," said Rinaldi. "We need to be a bold and unapologetic conservative party." Measures adopted by the party's platform at the convention are not set laws, rather they act as a "mission statement" of sorts for the party over the next two years, said a report from local newspaper The Houston Chronicle, adding that Texas can't legally secede from the United States in a fact check. Thousands of individuals, mostly former President Donald Trump's supporters, stormed the U.S. Capitol and disrupted a joint session of Congress in the process of affirming the 2020 presidential election results on Jan. 6, 2021. Five deaths have been linked by authorities to the mayhem. A House committee led by Democrats is investigating the riot, the worst attack on the U.S. Congress in more than 200 years. However, as conspiracy theories and disinformation abound, the country's political divide appears to be widening ahead of the 2022 midterm elections.  ■