by Oliver Trust BERLIN, June 2 (Xinhua) -- Six months ahead of the 2022 World Cup in Qatar the German national team finds itself ahead of a series of ultimate tests. Facing 2020 European champion Italy in the 2022 Nations League curtain-raiser this Saturday in Bologna is followed by the delicate encounters against England and Hungary. The pictures of a team entirely focused on working on the training pitches in Herzogenaurach, north of Munich can't hide the heavy load of pressure resting on the shoulders of national coach Hansi Flick. Bayern Munich forward Thomas Muller spoke of an important stress test of his side having to prove their quality after disappointing years. The 32-year-old underlined the importance of "proving we can achieve success against top nations and confirm our quality. We know about our quality, but didn't perform in the past tournaments." While expectations among fans don't seem to meet limits regarding the upcoming World Cup, Bayern midfielder Leon Goretzka admitted: "We are not among the top nations at present." Ahead of the encounter against Italy, the mood in the German team couldn't be better as the actions of coach Flick seem to bear fruit. The 2020 Bayern treble winner's changes triggered additional enthusiasm among the squad and a spirit of optimism. After setting up advanced position-specific online-training sessions during the club season, fans in Herzogenaurach see drones monitoring training sessions to provide pictures for following analysis meetings. It's time for "us to create the confirmation we can achieve good results as a group," Muller noted. Flick increased competition among his squad with four Nation League encounters ahead within ten days. The 57-year-old announced none of his stars including Joshua Kimmich and Goretzka can count on already booked places. "We are well equipped; especially in midfield. Therefore, it doesn't make sense to hand out any guarantees to anyone," Flick stated. The German coach also spoke about the end of testing as this year's schedule doesn't leave any space to waste time. Nation League encounters are followed by the 2022-2023 season start and the World Cup in mid-November. With only a week of preparation ahead of the Qatar World Cup, performing at a top level has turned into a must. While German keeper Manuel Neuer spoke about "stressful months ahead as most of us constantly face mid-week games", Flick stressed that preparations for the 2022 World Cup have already started. Most German players face 26 games within 15 weeks until the World Cup kick-off in the league, international club competitions, and the national team. "The Nation League encounters will tell us where we stand at present," Flick added.  ■