SYDNEY, June 7 (Xinhua) -- Australian paediatric researchers believe their study into the use of stem cells from umbilical cord blood (UCB) to treat life-threatening diseases in premature babies was "showing great promise." Neonatologist Lindsay Zhou from the Melbourne-based Hudson Institute of Medical Research said the study, published in the journal STEM CELLS Translational Medicine and released to the public on Tuesday, was the first "stocktake of research" into the use of UCB stem cells on preterm infants. Zhou said the analysis of more than 200 premature babies in 12 clinical trials around the world showed the stem cells had been successfully used to treat conditions including birth asphyxia, chronic lung disease, congenital heart disease and injuries to the preterm brain. Preterm babies often face an uphill battle to survive as they have much higher rates of respiratory, cardiovascular and neurological complications than babies who are born full-term. The infants also often suffer from lung, heart and brain inflammation and injury leading to life-long ailments such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia, pulmonary and systemic hypertension and cerebral palsy. Medical experts already know that UCB contains the body's most plentiful reservoir of cells and, as such, has regenerative potential for many clinical applications. There has, however, not been such a clear indication that the stem cells could also be safe for vulnerable premature infants. Zhou concedes that despite the progress shown in the study, the treatment for premature babies had a "long way to go" before being widely adopted. "Umbilical cord blood-derived cell treatment is still in early-phase clinical trials around the world, and there is need for further laboratory and clinical studies to find ways to use them effectively to treat complications of prematurity," Zhou said. "We hope that umbilical cord blood stem cells can be used like a rescue team, to come in and help premature babies who are injured and replenish supplies." Associate Professor Atul Malhotra, a neonatologist leading stem cell research at the Hudson Institute of Medical Research and Monash Children's Hospital, is meanwhile working on developing the next phase of the clinical trials. "We are at an exciting stage of this research with early phase studies on the use of these cells in preterm babies are gathering momentum," Malhotra told Xinhua on Tuesday. "These studies will hopefully confirm safety and feasibility of these cells in due course. The next steps will be larger studies to evaluate efficacy for different neonatal conditions."  ■