KUALA LUMPUR, June 14 (Xinhua) -- Foreign purchases of Malaysian residential properties are expected to return to the pre-pandemic levels over the next 18 months, real estate technology group Juwai IQI said on Tuesday. Citing a survey of some 350 estate agents across the country, Juwai IQI Co-Founder and Chief Executive Officer Kashif Ansari said 15 percent of agents believe that foreign buying will return to its previous levels as soon as the end of 2022. "The pandemic is almost behind us, and thanks to public sector support and the vaccination campaign, we have learned to overcome it," he said. "The reopening of borders and the resumption of travel means that foreign buyers are beginning to return. Foreign investment is essential to the Malaysian property market." Kasif said Malaysia has many advantages as a destination for foreign investment, including the favourable global commodity market which sets the country apart from other Southeast Asian countries. He said that strong economic and employment growth is likely to lead to strong property market performance. As inventory is sold down and prices even begin to rise, foreign investors will find the Malaysian market irresistible, particularly to Chinese buyers. "Since 2017, Malaysia has leapt from Chinese buyers' 10th favourite destination to their fifth. Australia and Canada have also become more popular with Chinese buyers during this timeframe. This data from Juwai IQI is based on buyer enquiries made through our platform and agent network." "Chinese buyer demand for Malaysian homes is at about one-third the level it was before the pandemic but has already begun climbing back up. The drop has been due to the reduction in travel between the two countries. Still today, Chinese who want to travel to Malaysia have to undergo an extended quarantine upon returning home. As a result, most Chinese have avoided overseas travel." Buyers believe that Malaysia has great potential for price and rental appreciation in the coming years, making this a good time to purchase, Kasif added.  ■