 People attend the topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the construction site of the Central Business District (CBD) project in Egypt's new administrative capital, some 50 km east of Cairo, March 9, 2022. A topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the central business district (CBD) of Egypt's new administrative capital was held on Wednesday. With a total area of around 505,000 square meters, the CBD project being built by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) includes 20 new high-rise buildings and some municipal projects. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)  Guests take part in the topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the construction site of the Central Business District (CBD) project in Egypt's new administrative capital, some 50 km east of Cairo, March 9, 2022. A topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the central business district (CBD) of Egypt's new administrative capital was held on Wednesday. With a total area of around 505,000 square meters, the CBD project being built by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) includes 20 new high-rise buildings and some municipal projects. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)  Photo taken on March 9, 2022 shows the Crescent Tower of the Central Business District (CBD) project under construction in Egypt's new administrative capital, some 50 km east of Cairo. A topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the central business district (CBD) of Egypt's new administrative capital was held on Wednesday. With a total area of around 505,000 square meters, the CBD project being built by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) includes 20 new high-rise buildings and some municipal projects. (Xinhua/Wang Dongzhen)  People attend the topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the construction site of the Central Business District (CBD) project in Egypt's new administrative capital, some 50 km east of Cairo, March 9, 2022. A topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the central business district (CBD) of Egypt's new administrative capital was held on Wednesday. With a total area of around 505,000 square meters, the CBD project being built by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) includes 20 new high-rise buildings and some municipal projects. (Xinhua/Sui Xiankai)  Photo taken on March 9, 2022 shows the Crescent Tower of the Central Business District (CBD) project under construction in Egypt's new administrative capital, some 50 km east of Cairo. A topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the central business district (CBD) of Egypt's new administrative capital was held on Wednesday. With a total area of around 505,000 square meters, the CBD project being built by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) includes 20 new high-rise buildings and some municipal projects. (Xinhua/Wang Dongzhen)  Photo taken on March 9, 2022 shows the Crescent Tower of the Central Business District (CBD) project under construction in Egypt's new administrative capital, some 50 km east of Cairo. A topping-out ceremony for part of the Crescent Tower in the central business district (CBD) of Egypt's new administrative capital was held on Wednesday. With a total area of around 505,000 square meters, the CBD project being built by the China State Construction Engineering Corporation (CSCEC) includes 20 new high-rise buildings and some municipal projects. (Xinhua/Wang Dongzhen)