TRIPOLI, March 2 (Xinhua) -- A number of armed factions in western Libya have announced their rejection to the new government that was approved by the House of Representatives, the country's parliament. "We hereby announce our complete rejection to the procedure adopted by the House of Representatives, by which a new government was approved, which is a violation of the political agreement and the rules of procedures of the House of Representatives," the armed factions said in a joint statement late Tuesday. "Our only option is to return legitimacy to the Libyan people and hold elections to select those who will represent that legitimacy," added the statement, which was published via local media. In the statement, the armed factions called on the Presidential Council to dissolve the House of Representatives and hold elections early. The Libyan House of Representatives approved a new government on Tuesday, replacing the incumbent Government of National Unity led by Prime Minister Abdul-Hamid Dbeibah. "The House of Representatives unanimously granted confidence to the new government, with a majority of 92 votes," the parliament spokesman Abdullah Blehig said in a statement. In September last year, the House of Representatives withdrew confidence from Dbeibah's government and designated it as a caretaker government. On Feb. 10, it unanimously voted to appoint Fathi Bashagha, the former interior minister, as the new prime minister. However, Dbeibah insisted that his government would remain in office until an elected government is established. On Feb. 21, he announced a plan to hold general elections in June. Dbeibah's government on Tuesday accused the House of Representatives of approving the new government "without attaining quorum" during the session, vowing to continue to prepare for the elections in June. General elections in Libya had been scheduled for Dec. 24 last year, but were postponed indefinitely because of technical and legal issues, according to the country's elections commission.  ■