ATHENS, March 24 (Xinhua) -- The income of one in two households in Greece lasted until the 19th of each month on average in 2021, according to the results of a survey released recently in Athens. The survey was conducted late last year by the Small Enterprises' Institute (IME) of the Hellenic Confederation of Professionals, Craftsmen and Merchants (GSEVEE). One in two respondents to the survey expected their income to further shrink in 2022 due to rising inflation linked to skyrocketing energy costs, and to struggle to meet their obligations to the tax office, insurance funds and lenders. "There was an increase for 65 percent of households in expenses to cover house bills, while more than 50 percent had to spend more on food, heating and transportation," GSEVEE President George Kavvathas told Xinhua on Thursday. The situation has deteriorated since the start of the Russia-Ukraine crisis, he said. Recent figures from the Hellenic Statistical Authority (ELSTAT) showed that Greece's annual inflation rate increased to 7.2 percent in February, hitting a 26-year high. The sharp rise was attributed mainly to a 78.5 percent hike in the prices for natural gas, 71.4 percent for electricity, 41.5 percent for heating oil and 23.2 percent for fuel and lubricants. Fifty-six percent of respondents in an opinion poll presented on Wednesday evening on local MEGA television said their financial situation had worsened compared to a year ago. The government has recently announced a series of measures to help households and businesses cope with the crisis, but according to Kavvathas and other professionals and citizens more is needed. "Most important of all, in my opinion, is the reduction of value-added tax (VAT) on basic food products from 13 percent to six percent, even as a temporary measure to mitigate the effects of the hikes on the daily basic food products of households," he said. The GSEVEE is also calling for an imminent reduction of taxes on fuel and a ceiling on electricity and natural gas prices, as well as the close monitoring of the country's stock of food products, such as sunflower oil and flour, to prevent profiteering.  ■