KIGALI, March 5 (Xinhua) -- The Rwandan government has lifted a midnight-to-4 a.m. curfew on people's movement, effective Saturday for the first time since the outbreak of COVID-19 in March 2020. "Curfew is lifted. However, nightclubs, live bands, bars, receptions, and betting activities shall close by 2 a.m.," said a cabinet communique issued by the Office of the Prime Minister late Friday. The cabinet also decided that citizens and Rwanda residents must be fully vaccinated in order to access public places. According to the communique, private businesses and public offices including social gatherings will operate at full capacity. However, wearing a face mask in public places remains mandatory. Physical conferences, services held at places of worship, restaurants, bars and gyms are to be conducted in full capacity of venues, while outdoor settings are highly encouraged. Attendance to any social gathering and event will require a negative COVID-19 test taken at least 48 hours before. All sports activities and sports fans in stadiums will be permitted as long as they are fully vaccinated. Land borders shall reopen starting Monday March 7 and people may be subject to random COVID-19 testing by the ministry of health upon entry, according to the communique. Arriving and departing passengers at Kigali International Airport must present a negative COVID-19 PCR test taken 72 hours prior to departure. All departing Rwandans must be vaccinated, said the communique. Public buses will also operate at full capacity with seated passengers and 75 percent of non-seated passengers, operators must ensure that all passengers are fully vaccinated and penalties shall be applied in case of non-compliance, according to the communique. The new measures take effect on Saturday, March 5 and will be revised after one month upon health assessment. The Rwandan health ministry announced on Thursday that the 60 percent of the Rwandan population has been fully vaccinated against COVID-19. Rwanda has witnessed a fall in COVID-19 infections since the beginning of 2022.  ■