CHICAGO, March 5 (Xinhua) -- Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) agricultural futures surged sharply in the past week amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict, as hedge funds are pouring funds into the raw material markets, Chicago-based research company AgResource has observed. Inflation is soaring and will worsen with the conflict creating fertilizer, metal, food and energy shortages. Corn futures ended sharply higher amid the addition of Russia-Ukraine conflict premium and massive uncertainty over Ukrainian exports. For now, the market must assume that some 6-7 million metric tons of Ukrainian exports will not be executed in March and April. Rising free on board (FOB) basis levels at the Gulf suggested a sizable portion of this demand is being shifted to the U.S. market, AgResource said, noting that along with reduced South American production, final 2021-2022 U.S. corn ending stocks will drop to 1.1 billion bushels. Sustained rallies will hinge solely on the ongoing Russia-Ukraine conflict and the loss of 2022 Ukrainian production. Managing risk has become challenging in a corn market that swings dramatically on a daily basis, it added. The CBOT wheat futures saw a new historic high with May futures locked limit up for five consecutive days, and the Russia-Ukraine conflict has triggered the fear of a lasting shutdown of Black Sea grain trade. According to the company, the gap is difficult to be filled by other origins with U.S. hard red winter (HRW) wheat stocks projected to contract to a 14-year low of 280-300 million bushels. However, the company stressed that HRW wheat stocks will further drop to or below 200 million bushels if regular rains fail to appear by mid-spring, which in turn implies the United States cannot boost its share of world trade at a time of record low exporter stocks/use. AgResource suggested that fair value of wheat lies between 8.50-10.50 U.S. dollars. Incredible conflict premium is warranted, but new speculative positions are not advised. Volatility in CBOT soybean markets continued through last week, the company added. Soybeans started the week with strong gains, and the rally lifted the 2022 crop insurance base price to a record-setting high of 14.33 dollars. The strong price, combined with average yields, will ensure a record amount of income for U.S. farmers in 2022. China and other world importers remained steady buyers of U.S. soybeans through the week. Brazilian FOB premiums continue to soar, and U.S. old crop soybeans are now the cheapest in the world. Long-term CBOT fundamental trends are bullish, but volatility will stay extreme, said the research company.  ■