ALGIERS, March 30 (Xinhua) -- The U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken concluded a one-day visit to Algeria on Wednesday, where he met with President Abdelmadjid Tebboune and Foreign Minister Ramtane Lamamra, discussing bilateral security and economic cooperation. This is the last leg of his tour to the Middle East amid the Russia-Ukraine conflict. The top U.S. diplomat also visited Israel, Palestine, and Morocco before landing in Algiers, capital of Algeria. Blinken told a press conference held at the U.S. Embassy in Algiers that security and counterterrorism cooperation remained "the cornerstone" of bilateral relations between Algiers and Washington. "Algeria plays a key role in improving peace and security in the region," he said, adding "cooperation with Algeria in the Sahel is important for us." Blinken pointed out that Algeria continues to play a key role in the stability in Mali as well as Libya, which is locked in a political impasse as factions cannot reach an agreement on holding a presidential election. In addition to the security cooperation, he hailed the "strong" relations that bind Algeria and the United States, stressing his country's desire to work for deepening economic, educational, and cultural ties. As for the Western Sahara issue, Blinken said "our position did not change; we fully support the efforts of the Special Envoy of the UN aiming at resolving the situation." Former U.S. President Donald Trump decided in 2020 to recognize Western Sahara as part of Morocco after the kingdom agreed to normalize relations with Israel under the so-called Abraham Accords. The decision has prompted shrill criticism from Algeria, which has supported the independence of the whole of Western Sahara since 1975. The Biden administration has voiced its full support for the Abraham Accords while remaining largely silent on the Western Sahara matter. Blinken also said he discussed with Algerian officials the conflict between Ukraine and Russia, noting it has had an impact on food and energy prices. The U.S. official arrived in Algeria on Wednesday morning.  ■