by Guo Shuang and Martina Fuchs LONDON, March 18 (Xinhua) -- Former British Business Secretary Vince Cable has urged the West to accept that the center of gravity of the world's economy has moved to Asia. "We have to accept that this is a new reality, and the mentality has to change. The center of gravity of the world's economy has moved to Asia," said Cable, who served as Secretary of State for Business, Innovation and Skills from 2010 to 2015. Cable, currently a professor in practice at the London School of Economics and Political Science, mentioned "Davos China" in his book "The Chinese Conundrum: Engagement or Conflict" published last year. "This is a China that wants to engage globally, through trade and investment, participating in multilateral institutions and contributing to dealing with collective problems," he wrote in the book. Commenting on China's vision of building a community with a shared future for mankind, he said, "If we can make that happen, and that is desirable, clearly." In a recent speech, Cable told a joke when talking about the U.S. outrageous demands on China. "If the Chinese were to say 'Ok, we are not going to sit down with you in the United States, and talk about trade unless you repeal Section II of the American Constitution (referring to the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution) that gives people the right to carry guns. We in China are very upset at seeing people being killed in America in shooting incidents.'" Cable said he referred to the rights of Americans to own guns because many would see the right to own guns "a terrible abuse of human rights." "But at the moment, the Chinese are not saying you must get rid of your constitutional rights so that we can trade with you, and that would be considered a joke," Cable told Xinhua. "There is what's called one-way traffic that people in the West are saying you must change your system because we don't like human rights abuses or whatever," he continued. "There has to be a level playing field on these arguments." "Human rights are not just a Western concept," Cable said. "I think the West needs to accept that in China, there is an additional dimension to human rights that we perhaps don't appreciate. One of which is the need to emphasize the movement out of poverty, which has been a big achievement in China." Cable hopes that there is a recognition in the world that disengagement is a bad process. "It's fuelling suspicion, and it's becoming a vicious circle. We have to live together, work together, and have a shared economy," he said. Cable stressed that hostile rhetoric only leads to stereotypes and mistrust and negatively impacts the global economy. But "a lot of investment is still happening despite the rhetoric. There are a lot of Chinese companies investing abroad and foreign companies going to China, particularly in the finance sector," he said, noting that the British welcomes Chinese investments.  ■