TOKYO, April 20 (Xinhua) -- The Japanese yen has weakened markedly this year as major central banks in Europe and the United States have shifted monetary policies. Meanwhile, affected by the Russia-Ukraine conflict, international commodity prices continued to rise, which further magnified the impact of the depreciation of the yen on the Japanese economy. The Nikkei's "currency index" of the world's leading currencies showed the yen declined by 5.7 percent in the first quarter of 2022, second only to the Russian ruble. In March, the yen fell 6.9 percent against the U.S. dollar. Japan's current account balance continued to deteriorate due to the sharp depreciation of the yen. According to data from the Finance Ministry, due to factors such as rising import prices, the country's current account surplus has been shrinking since last August and swung into deficit in December, and the deficit widened to 1.1887 trillion yen (9.26 billion dollars) in January this year. The Nikkei estimated that Japan's current account deficit will hit 16 trillion yen (124.63 billion dollars) in fiscal 2022 if the yen continues to weaken and crude oil prices rise to 130 dollars a barrel. The sharp fall in the yen has increased the impact of the surge in international commodity prices on Japan's economy. According to the Bank of Japan (BOJ), Japan's corporate inflation index rose 9.5 percent year-on-year to 112.0 in March, up for the 13th consecutive month, as import prices continued to surge. Japan has been facing deflation pressure for a long time, and the COVID-19 pandemic has worsened domestic demand. Japanese companies are generally cautious about raising prices, and many of them have not passed on all the raw material price increases to consumers, putting them under great pressure. Still, Japanese consumers have had to bear the brunt of rising prices, as prices of commodities related to petroleum and food have risen particularly sharply. The BOJ estimated that corporate prices will continue to increase, with inflation likely to reach 2 percent after April. Haruhiko Kuroda, the central bank's governor, pointed out that this was not the demand-expanding inflation the bank had hoped for. One of the main reasons for the sharp fall in the yen is the divergence between the BOJ and major central banks in Europe and the United States. Since the beginning of this year, the Federal Reserve, the European Central Bank and the Bank of England have all accelerated the pace of tightening. The United States, Britain and other countries have been on track to raise interest rates, while the BOJ, forced by a weak domestic economic recovery, is still sticking to its ultra-loose monetary policy. Market participants expected the yen will continue to be sold as the gap between the yen and the dollar will further widen. There are also structural reasons for the sharp depreciation as the country is highly dependent on imports. As international commodity prices continued to grow, Japan's imports saw a huge increase. Although the depreciation of the yen is beneficial for Japan to increase exports, some experts believed that under the current circumstances, the effect of expanding exports to cut down the current account deficit has been significantly reduced. The combination of high oil prices and the depreciation of the yen has led to a surge in demand for dollars and a large amount of capital outflow from Japan. Japanese Finance Minister Junichi Suzuki has said exchange rate stability is very important, and the Japanese government will closely monitor developments in the foreign exchange market and their impact on the Japanese economy, while maintaining close communication with the monetary authorities in the United States and other countries. Japan's corporate circle is worried about the continuing depreciation of the yen. According to a local media survey, 76 percent of companies said they would not be able to cope with the yen-dollar exchange rate falling below 125, and 94 percent said they would not be able to cope with the rate exceeding 130. Economists believe that the yen will continue to weaken against the dollar in the future, and may even fall to 140-150 yen per dollar by the end of this year or early next year, as the U.S. Federal Reserve persists in its tightening stance and international commodity prices remain high.  ■