BANGKOK, April 1 (Xinhua) -- Thailand's central bank has decided to leave its interest rate unchanged to shore up the subdued economy despite the uprising inflation, which has recently recorded the steepest climb in more than 13 years on soaring food and energy prices. The Bank of Thailand (BOT) announced Wednesday to keep the benchmark policy rate unchanged despite inflation spiraling above its target, vowing to continue to put emphasis on supporting economic recovery as the rising inflation will not persist. The central bank expected Thailand's headline inflation to rise 4.9 percent in 2022, above its target range of 1-3 percent for the year. However, it projected the inflation pressure to ease in early 2023 with energy and food prices stabilizing. The BOT monetary policy committee voted unanimously to maintain the policy rate at a record low of 0.5 percent, which has been left unchanged since May 2020. The decision was in line with market expectations, as most economists expect the Bank of Thailand to keep the rate steady throughout 2022 to support a nascent economic recovery. The country's consumer price index, a major gauge of inflation, surged 5.28 percent year-on-year in February, the fastest pace since September 2008 and up from 3.23 percent in January. The index is widely expected to rise further in March. Surging costs of fresh food, ranging from pork, eggs to vegetables, have squeezed the profit margin of Fon's eatery business and forced her to raise prices to pass on the costs to customers. "With 500 baht (about 15 U.S. dollars), I used to buy pork, fish and vegetables, but now (with that I) could only pay for pork," said the 50-year-old from Bangkok. The spike in inflation, which has overshot the BOT's target for the last two months, would make it increasingly difficult for policy makers to strike a balance between managing risks to economic growth and price stability, said the Krungsri Research, a think tank. Also on Wednesday, the BOT revised down the country's growth forecast for 2022 to 3.2 percent, taking into consideration factors including impacts from the fast spread of the Omicron variant, a slowdown in exports and higher global oil and commodity prices. In December, it predicted the 2022 gross domestic product to grow 3.4 percent and inflation rise at 1.7 percent. In 2021, Thailand's economy expanded 1.6 percent from one year earlier, rebounding from a 6.2-percent contraction in 2020 due to COVID-19, its worst economic performance in more than two decades. To support the pandemic-hit economy, the Thai government has resumed quarantine-free entry to revive the tourism sector. Meanwhile, it's offering subsidies to vulnerable groups such as street food vendors, motorcycle taxi and taxi drivers, and has taken measures to control key fuel and food prices to help minimize the impact of inflation on consumers. "It's not wise for Thailand to raise interest rates now," which would not help reduce the cost-push inflation but hurt the economic recovery, said Kirida Bhaopichitr, research director for international economics and development policy under the Thailand Development Research Institute. With Thailand's economic recovery still patchy and demand remaining tepid, raising interest rates will hurt the recovering demand and exacerbate the debt burden of households as well as small and medium-sized enterprises, Kirida said. Relatively low levels of external debt and foreign portfolio investment in Thailand's stock and bond markets also helped soothe concerns over capital outflows as the U.S. Fed raised interest rates, she said. Kirida noted that the Thai central bank might raise the benchmark policy rate at the beginning of next year, depending on the development of economic situation. The BOT said it will continue to closely monitor inflation dynamics to ensure that medium-term inflation expectations remain within monetary policy target, vowing to "use appropriate monetary policy tools if necessary."  ■