 Tourists stand in front of a cable car station's ticket office of Table Mountain in Cape Town, Western Cape Province, South Africa, on April 9, 2022. Wesgro, the official tourism, trade and investment promotion agency for Cape Town and Western Cape Province, on Friday said the latest Western Cape tourism figures showed that traveler confidence has returned, with February recording the highest number of arrival and departure international terminal passengers over the last five months. Natural attractions such as Table Mountain and Cape Point were popular with both domestic and international tourists, it said. (Xinhua/Lyu Tianran)  Tourists get off a sightseeing bus at a cable car station of Table Mountain in Cape Town, Western Cape Province, South Africa, on April 9, 2022. Wesgro, the official tourism, trade and investment promotion agency for Cape Town and Western Cape Province, on Friday said the latest Western Cape tourism figures showed that traveler confidence has returned, with February recording the highest number of arrival and departure international terminal passengers over the last five months. Natural attractions such as Table Mountain and Cape Point were popular with both domestic and international tourists, it said. (Xinhua/Lyu Tianran)  A staff member sanitizes a tourist's hands at a cable car station of Table Mountain in Cape Town, Western Cape Province, South Africa, on April 9, 2022. Wesgro, the official tourism, trade and investment promotion agency for Cape Town and Western Cape Province, on Friday said the latest Western Cape tourism figures showed that traveler confidence has returned, with February recording the highest number of arrival and departure international terminal passengers over the last five months. Natural attractions such as Table Mountain and Cape Point were popular with both domestic and international tourists, it said. (Xinhua/Lyu Tianran)  Tourists line up at a cable car station of Table Mountain in Cape Town, Western Cape Province, South Africa, on April 9, 2022. Wesgro, the official tourism, trade and investment promotion agency for Cape Town and Western Cape Province, on Friday said the latest Western Cape tourism figures showed that traveler confidence has returned, with February recording the highest number of arrival and departure international terminal passengers over the last five months. Natural attractions such as Table Mountain and Cape Point were popular with both domestic and international tourists, it said. (Xinhua/Lyu Tianran)