TIRANA, April 28 (Xinhua) -- The Commissioner for Neighborhood and Enlargement of the European Union (EU) Oliver Varhelyi Thursday called on the Albanian people to be patient over the process of the country's integration with the European Union (EU). "We really appreciate Albania's patience and we ask for a little bit more patience from your side. The aim is to achieve this during the French Presidency," Varhelyi said at a joint press conference with Albanian Prime Minister Edi Rama. In his remarks, the EU official stressed that integration is about security and stability in the Western Balkans. "We must put in use everything we can to stabilize the Western Balkans. The entire integration process is about security and stability in the Western Balkans. That's why I cannot give time to those who are involved in doing what they shouldn't be," Varhelyi added. Varhelyi had a stop in Tirana following his visits to North Macedonia and Bulgaria. According to him, the delay in starting EU membership negotiations with Albania and North Macedonia is compromising its security and trust. "EU's security is being compromised, that is why we need to do this now, as our credibility is being questioned," he noted. For his part, Rama declared that Albanians "should have strategic patience" over the process of EU accession talks. However, Rama added that in case membership talks are not launched by June and during the French presidency of the EU, Albania will not wait for Bulgaria and that he will ask for Albania to be decoupled from North Macedonia. During his visit to North Macedonia's capital Skopje on Wednesday, Varhelyi met with Foreign Affairs Minister Bujar Osmani. The two officials agreed that the new geopolitical situation calls for reaffirming the enlargement policy as a geostrategic investment in peace, stability, security and economic prosperity across the European continent, according to a press release issued by the foreign ministry. Albania and North Macedonia have been given the green light to start accession talks with the EU since 2020, but the two neighboring Balkan countries are still waiting for a date for these talks to begin.  ■