NEW YORK, April 15 (Xinhua) -- The New York International Auto Show (NYIAS) staged a comeback and opened to the general public on Friday after two years of interruption amid the COVID-19 pandemic. The NYIAS, which dates back to 1900, scales down the exhibition area in 2022 but highlights new electric vehicles (EVs) from home and abroad. "Electrification of personal transportation has come to the United States. It is a shift that is well underway. There are more than 70 electrified models on the market - expected to grow to 130 models by 2025," said John Bozzella, president and chief executive officer of the Alliance for Automotive Innovation. The auto show has a 250,000-square foot indoor test track to test various EVs. California-based start-up INDI EV opened up reservations for INDI ONE EV at the auto show. Chrysler, a family brand of sedans and minivans, unveiled the Graphite version of all-electric concept car Airflow with up to 400-mile range and fast-charging functionality. Austria's start-up Deus Automobiles unveiled its electric hypercar Vayanne with top speed of 248 miles per hour and acceleration figure of less than 1.99 seconds from zero to 62 miles per hour. Kia Corporation, a multinational automobile manufacturer from South Korea, presented its new lineup of Niro hybrid, plug-in hybrid and EV crossovers, which have been redesigned for the second generation. Vietnamese start-up EV manufacturer VinFast tested the waters of the U.S. market by presenting multiple EVs and details for subscription. VinFast recently announced a plan to establish a manufacturing plant of EVs and batteries in South Carolina while eyeing its initial public offering in the United States. The auto show dedicates nearly an entire floor to EVs, charging solutions, and consumer awareness programs, said Mark Schienberg, president of New York International Auto Show. The auto show also showcases the latest developments in deploying EVs in New York. Not only are EVs starting to make forays into the local taxi market but also New York law enforcement departments are adding EVs to their fleet. Gravity, Inc., an EV infrastructure and fleet start-up, is adding Tesla Model Y and Ford Mustang Mach-E to its all-EVs taxi fleet in New York City in addition to urban fast-chargers.  ■