OTTAWA, April 30 (Xinhua) -- Ottawa police officers on Friday evening were deployed to clear the crowd in the downtown area of Canada's capital city on the first day of this weekend's Rolling Thunder motorcycle rally. The Ottawa Police said on their Twitter account that seven people have been arrested for various charges, including assault on police. Officers have issued 185 tickets and towed 24 vehicles in accordance with the new bylaw, which entails the setting up of several Special Event No Stopping Zones to cope with the motorcycle rally this weekend. "There have been no reported injuries, and police remain in full control of city streets," the police tweeted. The Rolling Thunder convoy's organizer said on the event's website that a rally and march are scheduled for Parliament Hill at 6 p.m. local time Friday. The event schedule for Saturday will include a Veterans For Freedom service at the National War Memorial, a bike roll to downtown Ottawa and a rally and march on Parliament Hill. There is no information on the "Rolling Thunder Ottawa" website about the reasons for the event. Up to 1,000 motorcycles and other vehicles are expected to take part in the event. Some protesters are opposed to COVID-19 mandates. On Friday afternoon, motorcycles and pickup trucks with national flags were seen heading to downtown areas. Protestors arrived earlier in the evening on Parliament Hill, shouting "Freedom!" Several vehicles attempted to occupy a downtown parking lot. The Ottawa Police tweeted about a large crowd on Rideau Street and asked people to avoid the area. The city of Ottawa has brought in tight restrictions in anticipation of this weekend's protest to avoid a repeat of the anti-mandate convoy's occupation in late January and February. Downtown Ottawa was occupied for three weeks, which resulted in a public order emergency. "We have adjusted our overall approach to all demonstrations, protests, events and rallies. We will not allow for unsafe or unlawful conditions that could lead to another unlawful protest as seen in February," the police said in an earlier statement, adding that any organizer of any event will be held accountable for their actions before, during and after events.  ■