DENVER, United States, April 28 (Xinhua) -- Colorado is poised to become the first state in the United States to guarantee children conceived by egg or sperm donations to know the identity of their biological parents. Coloradans conceived with eggs or sperms donated after 2024 will be able to learn the identity of their biological parents when they turn 18. Currently, California and Washington, allow but don't require donors to disclose their identities. The bill, the first of its kind nationwide, was introduced last week. It also required fertility clinics to take steps to ensure donors can't be used to establish more than 10 families. If passed, Senate Bill 224, which has bipartisan support, will bring Coloradans the same rights as other countries, like Britain and Australia, afford citizens, Naomi Cahn, a University of Virginia School of Law professor who has studied the industry for decades and testified in favor of the bill, told the Colorado Sun Thursday. He noted that the bill hoped to eliminate the lack of regulation and information that can leave people conceived without having full knowledge of the medical profiles of their donors. Senate President Steve Fenberg, a Boulder Democrat and one of Senate Bill 224's prime sponsors, was also quoted by the Sun as saying that the bill would resolve the problem of anonymity. In worst cases, anonymity offers a curtain of secrecy that lets a donor lie about their academic or medical history, and that some have discovered using new DNA testing kits that they have dozens of half-siblings. The bill came after Colorado outlawed fertility fraud in 2020 in response to a fertility doctor who allegedly used his sperm to impregnate multiple women who were his clients without their knowledge over more than two decades. The 83-year-old doctor, Paul Jones, was believed to have fathered at least 17 children with 12 women using artificial insemination from 1975 to 1997. A jury in Colorado Wednesday awarded 8.75 million U.S. dollars on to the plaintiffs in a civil lawsuit against the doctor. Besides, at least 50 fertility doctors in the United States have been accused of donating sperms after commercial DNA testing became more widespread. Several states, including Texas and Indiana, have recently passed laws to crack down on fertility fraud after similar reports surfaced. However, opponents of Senate Bill 224 said the bill "appears to be a solution in search of a problem." "There is simply no evidence that there are problems with gamete donation which justify this level of intervention," said Sean Tipton at the American Society for Reproductive Medicine. Gametes donation is using eggs, sperms, or embryos from someone else in order to help an intended parent(s) have a child. Intended parent is the term used for the person(s) who will raise the child(ren). Egg or sperm donation allows one of the intended parents to keep the genetic link to the child. With embryo donation, there is no genetic link. However, the intended parents are able to experience pregnancy and birth. Clinic representatives said that requiring a donor to reveal their identity could limit the number of donors or violate their privacy, for example if the donor's address was posted online by the child conceived using their eggs or sperms. There were also questions about how out-of-state clinics serving Colorado residents could be required to comply with the bill, and concern that its documentation requirements would be time-consuming and more expensive. The U.S. fertility market is estimated to be an 8-billion-U.S.-dollar industry, including in vitro fertilization (IVF), genetic testing, reproductive tissue storage, and donor services, according to a report from Harris Williams Industry Update in 2021. IVF services alone, estimated at 3 billion dollars, are projected to grow at a 10-percent rate through 2024. There are 42 fertility clinics and four gamete banks in Colorado, according to Colorado's legislature's Fiscal Note.  ■