 Photo taken on April 20, 2022 shows the China-aided diplomatic academy in Tunis, Tunisia. Tunisia and China on Thursday celebrated via an online ceremony the handover of the newly built Tunisian Diplomatic Academy, a China-aided project. (Xinhua) TUNIS, April 28 (Xinhua) -- Tunisia and China on Thursday celebrated via an online ceremony the handover of the newly built Tunisian Diplomatic Academy, a China-aided project. Despite the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic, China has managed to complete the project with the highest standards and at the fastest speed, making positive contributions to deepening the friendly relations and practical cooperation between the two countries, said Chinese Vice Minister of Commerce Qian Keming during the ceremony. China and Tunisia are natural partners in the joint construction of the "Belt and Road Initiative," and China is willing to join hands with Tunisia to move forward and seek common development, said Qian. For his part, Tunisian Minister of Foreign Affairs Othman Jerandi said that the Tunisian Diplomatic Academy project, completed in December 2021 by China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation after over two years of construction, is a clear symbol of the close and friendly cooperation between China and Tunisia. Since the establishment of diplomatic relations, the cooperation programs and development projects in various fields between the two countries have brought tangible benefits to the Tunisian people, said Jerandi. Tunisia will well operate and maintain the diplomatic academy, carry out academic exchanges and training cooperation with China and other friendly countries, and promote the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, said the Tunisian top diplomat. Covering an area of about 12,000 square meters, the academy is designed for training Tunisian diplomats. ■   Tunisian Minister of Foreign Affairs Othman Jerandi shows the handover document during a ceremony in Tunis, Tunisia, on April 28, 2022. Tunisia and China on Thursday celebrated via an online ceremony the handover of the newly built Tunisian Diplomatic Academy, a China-aided project. (Photo by Adel Ezzine/Xinhua)  Tunisian Minister of Foreign Affairs Othman Jerandi (3rd R) attends an online handover ceremony in Tunis, Tunisia, on April 28, 2022. Tunisia and China on Thursday celebrated via an online ceremony the handover of the newly built Tunisian Diplomatic Academy, a China-aided project. (Photo by Adel Ezzine/Xinhua)  Photo taken on April 14, 2022 shows the conference hall of China-aided diplomatic academy in Tunis, Tunisia. Tunisia and China on Thursday celebrated via an online ceremony the handover of the newly built Tunisian Diplomatic Academy, a China-aided project. (Xinhua)  Officials from Tunisian Foreign Ministry and Chinese embassy in Tunisia attend an online ceremony in Tunis, Tunisia, on April 28, 2022. Tunisia and China on Thursday celebrated via an online ceremony the handover of the newly built Tunisian Diplomatic Academy, a China-aided project. (Photo by Adel Ezzine/Xinhua)