BEIJING, Jan. 21 (Xinhua) -- The year 2021 was a tough one for Europe as the conflict between the European Union (EU) and Poland deepened, the rift between Europe and America grew, and talks between the West and Russia ended without a breakthrough. A bumpy road awaits for Europe in 2022 with plenty of unresolved issues, including EU integration and strategic autonomy.  GLOOMY INTEGRATION EU integration has encountered several obstacles in 2021. Poland challenged the primacy of EU law and far-right forces raised their heads, all of which test the bloc's cohesion. In the new year, the dispute between Poland and the EU over "laws primacy" may continue. Poland and Hungary hold the idea that the national constitution takes precedence over some EU laws, while the Netherlands and Belgium support the primacy of EU law. As tensions between the two sides escalate, some European media even envisaged Poland exiting the EU. France's presidential election is scheduled for April 2022. Incumbent President Emmanuel Macron is currently leading in opinion polls though he has yet to formally declare his candidacy. In the election campaign, Macron could face a significant challenge from Marine Le Pen, head of the far-right National Rally. Italy is scheduled to hold a presidential election in January 2022. Mario Draghi, prime minister and former head of the European Central Bank, is seen as the most likely candidate for the presidency because of his high political prestige. However, if Draghi becomes president, a new challenge may emerge. The need to choose a new prime minister may stir up Italian politics and bring fresh uncertainties to the European integration process, with several political parties in the Italian parliament, including Eurosceptic forces.  CONFINED STRATEGIC AUTONOMY A series of U.S. moves vexed Europe in 2021: days after its hasty withdrawal from Afghanistan, the United States inked a security pact with Britain and Australia, barely consulting the EU; tech giants from America monopolized European digital markets; and Washington used Ukraine to test the nerve of EU-Russia relations for the sake of its own hegemony. The EU has an increasing desire for strategic autonomy, with Germany's new government pledging to make Europe "strong and sovereign," a desire later echoed by Macron as Paris assumed the bloc's rotating presidency. Yet it lacks the willingness to shed dependence on the United States. Calling strategic autonomy "an ideal goal," Feng Zhongping, director of the Institute of European Studies at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences, told Xinhua that the EU will continue its policies regarding the United States in 2022, and maintain tensions with Russia in order to keep Washington happy. On the other hand, internal splits threaten any hope of strategic autonomy. While the "old Europe" guard like France and Germany yearn for independent defense and de-escalation with Russia, most of the "new" states, such as the Baltic countries, remain hawkish on Moscow and turn to U.S.-led NATO for support.  PROMISING RELATIONS WITH CHINA In 2021, the comprehensive strategic partnership between Europe and China flourished despite challenges. The two sides' economic interests are closely intertwined, with annual trade volume expected to exceed 800 billion U.S. dollars. China and the EU reached broad consensus on such areas as multilateralism and global governance, and saw promising results jointly addressing climate change and fighting COVID-19. Still, there was plenty of European interference in China's internal affairs including Hong Kong, Taiwan and Xinjiang. Ignoring other EU members, Lithuania blatantly violated the one-China principle. Feng underlined the resilience in China-Europe practical cooperation, saying that 2022 will be a year for both sides to manage differences and expand cooperation. The Chinese market is indispensable to Europe's economic recovery, he said, adding that the European side needs to join hands with China on global governance and other issues. According to analysts, enhancing win-win cooperation between China and Europe stands to benefit the entire world.  ■