 A police car is seen blocking the road to the Congregation Beth Israel in Colleyville, a suburban city of Fort Worth in Texas, the United States, Jan. 15, 2022. All hostages "are out alive and safe" after an hours-long standoff ended on Saturday night at a synagogue in Colleyville, south central U.S. state Texas, Governor Greg Abbott tweeted. Colleyville police confirmed the information just before 10 p.m. local time (0400 GMT on Sunday). The suspected hostage taker is dead, according to Colleyville Police. Multiple media outlets reported that the suspect claimed to have set bombs in several locations inside the synagogue. (Photo by Dan Tian/Xinhua) HOUSTON, Jan. 15 (Xinhua) -- All hostages "are out alive and safe" after an hours-long standoff ended on Saturday night at a synagogue in Colleyville, south central U.S. state Texas, Governor Greg Abbott tweeted. Colleyville police confirmed the information just before 10 p.m. local time (0400 GMT on Sunday). The suspected hostage taker is dead, according to Colleyville Police. Multiple media outlets reported that the suspect claimed to have set bombs in several locations inside the synagogue. A bang was heard near the synagogue shortly before the rescue, according to a Xinhua reporter on the scene. It wasn't immediately clear what the noise was. At least four hostages, including a rabbi, were taken earlier on Saturday at Congregation Beth Israel in Colleyville, just outside Fort Worth. No injuries were reported among the hostages, one of whom was released earlier in the evening. The hostage taker required the release of Aafia Siddiqui, who was sentenced in 2010 to 86 years in prison for the attempted murder and assault of U.S. officers in Afghanistan, and is incarcerated in the federal prison in Fort Worth, local media reported. White House Press Secretary Jen Psaki tweeted on Saturday evening that President Joe Biden was briefed on the hostage situation. ■  Police cars are seen blocking the road to the Congregation Beth Israel in Colleyville, a suburban city of Fort Worth in Texas, U.S., Jan. 15, 2022. All hostages "are out alive and safe" after an hours-long standoff ended on Saturday night at a synagogue in Colleyville, south central U.S. state Texas, Governor Greg Abbott tweeted. Colleyville police confirmed the information just before 10 p.m. local time (0400 GMT on Sunday). The suspected hostage taker is dead, according to Colleyville Police. Multiple media outlets reported that the suspect claimed to have set bombs in several locations inside the synagogue. (Photo by Dan Tian/Xinhua)