by Xinhua writer Gao Shan LOS ANGELES, Jan. 12 (Xinhua) -- The 28th Annual Screen Actors Guild (SAG) Awards, presented by the Screen Actors Guild-American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (SAG-AFTRA), announced its nominations on Wednesday. American biographical crime drama film "House of Gucci" and Western psychological drama film "The Power of the Dog" led the film nominations with three each, while HBO's "Succession" and Apple TV+'s "Ted Lasso" led TV nominees with five nods apiece. Nominees for the awards honoring outstanding individual, cast and ensemble performances for the past year were revealed by two American actresses, Rosario Dawson and Vanessa Hudgens, via Instagram Live. Metro Goldwyn Mayer and United Artists Releasing's "House of Gucci" will compete for best ensemble, the top prize of the SAG Awards, along with "Belfast," "CODA," "Don't Look Up" and "King Richard." The film also won nominations for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role for Lady Gaga and Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role for Jared Leto. "House of Gucci" is inspired by the shocking true story of the family behind the Italian fashion empire. Directed by Ridley Scott, the R-rated film features an ensemble of Lady Gaga, Adam Driver, Al Pacino, Camille Cottin, Jack Huston, Jared Leto, Jeremy Irons, Reeve Carney and Salma Hayek. Netflix's "The Power of the Dog" earned a nom for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Leading Role for Benedict Cumberbatch. Kodi Smit-McPhee and Kirsten Dunst got nods for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Supporting Role and Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Supporting Role for the film respectively. Directed by Jane Campion and based on the 1967 novel of the same name, the film follows a domineering but charismatic rancher who wages a war of intimidation on his brother's new wife and her teen son -- until long-hidden secrets come to light. "The Power of the Dog" is a front-runner in Oscar race this year. The film won big on Sunday at the 79th Golden Globe Awards, not only capturing the award for best drama, but also walking away with best director and best supporting actor. Netflix led this year's film nominations with 7, while HBO/HBO MAX dominated on the TV side with 14 nods. HBO's "Succession" will compete for the Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Drama Series against "The Handmaid's Tale," "The Morning Show," "Yellowstone" and "Squid Game." Only behind "Succession" and "Ted Lasso," "Squid Game," "The Morning Show" and "Mare of Easttown" tied for the second most TV noms with four each. Netflix's South Korean series "Squid Game" made history to become the first non-English language TV series to be nominated for an SAG award. The popular series' actors Lee Jung-jae and Jung Ho-yeon were also nominated for Outstanding Performance by a Male Actor in a Drama Series and Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Drama Series, respectively. "Ted Lasso," "The Great," "Hacks," "The Kominsky Method" and "Only Murders in the Building" were in the race for Outstanding Performance by an Ensemble in a Comedy Series. The 28th Annual Screen Actors Guild Awards is scheduled to take place in Santa Monica, California, on Feb. 27. The awards is one of Hollywood awards season's premier events. SAG-AFTRA is an American labor union representing approximately 160,000 film and television actors, journalists, radio personalities, recording artists, singers, voice actors, and other media professionals.  ■