by Julia Pierrepont III PASADENA, the United States, Jan. 1 (Xinhua) -- Pasadena was awash with colors this Saturday, as the beloved Rose Parade, the most famous annual celebration event for New Year in the Los Angeles metropolitan area, returned in full bloom. After its COVID-19-induced cancellation in 2021 for the first time since World War II, Pasadena's Colorado Boulevard, the city's main thoroughfare and a segment of the former U.S. Route 66, was again filled with the whimsical, colorful floats bedecked with flowers, petals and seeds, the lively marching bands, and spirited equestrian riders that it is so justly famous for. Despite soaring infections fueled by the far more contagious Omicron variant, the 133rd parade went on. Up to 20 bands, 18 equestrian units and dozens of floats took part in Saturday's event. However, they did attract a much smaller in-person crowd than usual, and a quarter or more of the spectators were not wearing masks in the crowded stands and sidewalks. The parade kicked off the new year at 8:00 a.m. local time with actor, LeVar Burton, of Star Trek's Next Gen fame, serving as Grand Marshall. Twitter came alive with fans singing his praises all during the procession. An original song, "Throw my Arms Around the World," written and sung by the multi-Grammy award-winning LeAnn Rimes, set the festive, uplifting tone for the rest of the nationally televised event. Looking sharp in his long cream-colored coat, Burton welcomed live spectators and television viewers to the Rose Parade, saying that the Parade's theme this year of "Dream, Believe, Achieve" was "a testament to the reliance and dedication of our first responders and healthcare workers and every single one of you watching today for what it is you do." Chuck Hamil, a Californian resident who has not missed the Rose Parade in the last 20 years, enjoyed it from the sidelines again this year wearing a mask. "I'm so glad it's back," he told Xinhua. "It rings in the new year with hope, color, and good family fun." Nature lovers also had a flock of faux feathered and furred floats to enjoy, including the San Diego Zoo Alliance's float celebrating nature and the dedication of animal rescue organizations; the Sierra Madre float "Nature's Classroom," with its giant, gorgeous yellow and orange-billed toucans perched in a stunning tropical forest alive with blooms. It was interesting to note that many more health-oriented floats were featured this year, such as Donate Life's float to raise awareness of the life-saving results of organ donation.  Enditem