by Lillian Banda LUSAKA, Jan. 12 (Xinhua) -- In Zambia, art pieces such as paintings and sculptures have long been considered luxuries consumed by the rich and wealthy. However, the Twice Art Gallery, located in the northern part of the capital Lusaka, revealed that an increasing number of visitors are showing keen interest in a range of creative works including paintings and sculptures. The art gallery, which opened almost seven months ago, has some of the best paintings and sculptures by different artists from across Zambia. Local writers have also used it as an exhibition space to showcase their books. The place is a hive of activity particularly on weekends and during public holidays, attracting people from various sections of society to admire or purchase art pieces. "We have registered a significant increase in the number of people coming to buy paintings and sculptures in the last four months," said Twice Art Gallery proprietor Callen Chisha. Chisha, 45, a Zambian fine art specialist, is particularly happy that more locals have come not just to have a look at artworks on display but to buy items. "The clientele consists of different population groups with varying income levels, which is contrary to assertions that only wealthy people appreciate and buy art pieces such as paintings," he said. He also observed that the COVID-19 pandemic has not deterred fine art enthusiasts from acquiring art objects but has instead fueled the desire in many to reconnect with things that are of value to them. "It is gratifying to note that people are still able to set aside some resources to purchase art pieces despite the economic downturn resulting from the COVID-19 pandemic. That shows that art is a valuable thing to humanity," Chisha said. He said that aside from beautifying life and workspaces, art pieces help people overcome difficult situations in life because they fill individuals with new energy and inspiration. Chisha explained that prices of items at Twice Art Gallery vary but start from 400 Zambian Kwacha (about 24 U.S. dollars), with sculptures being the most affordable. He commended members of the public for buying original art pieces from local artists, saying the move is helping the arts industry to flourish and continue being a source of livelihood for creative minds.  Enditem.