NEW DELHI, Jan. 22 (Xinhua) -- India's election commission Saturday extended a ban on public rallies and roadshows in the five poll-bound states until Jan. 31 in the wake of an increase in COVID-19 cases. However, it has ordered relaxations for the first two phases of voting due on Feb. 10 and Feb. 14. The Election Commission of India (ECI) held separate virtual meetings with the Ministry of Health and Family Welfare, chief secretaries and health secretaries of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttarakhand and Uttar Pradesh, as also the chief electoral officers of these five poll-going states. "No roadshow, Pad-yatra (foot march), cycle/bike/vehicle rally and procession shall be allowed till Jan. 31, 2022," said a statement issued by the ECI. The election commission added that after contesting candidates for phase one elections are finalized on Jan. 27, physical meetings of concerned political parties or contesting candidates will be allowed in designated open spaces with a maximum of 500 people, or 50 percent of the capacity of the ground, or the prescribed limit set by State Disaster Management Authority, whichever number is lesser, from Jan. 28 till Feb. 8, excluding the silence period. Silence period usually begins 48 hours before the voting day and ends after polling ends. No active campaigning by the candidates or political parties is allowed during this period. Similar relaxation has been granted to the contesting candidates for phase two elections from Feb. 1 till Feb. 12. The ECI said political parties and contesting candidates shall ensure the compliance of COVID-19 appropriate behavior and guidelines and Model Code of Conduct at all occasions during election-related activities. Polling is scheduled to take place in the states of Goa, Manipur, Punjab, Uttar Pradesh and Uttarakhand in up to seven phases from Feb. 10 until March 7. The counting of votes will take place on March 10. At present India is in the grip of the third wave of COVID-19. The health ministry Saturday morning said 337,704 new cases and 488 related deaths were reported during the past 24 hours.  ■