LOS ANGELES, Jan. 23 (Xinhua) -- Superhero film "Spider-Man: No Way Home" reclaimed the top spot at North American box office with an estimated 3-day total of 14.12 million U.S. dollars in its sixth weekend of release, according to studio figures released by measurement firm Comscore on Sunday. The film has grossed a huge 721.01 million dollars in North America for a global cume of 1.69 billion dollars to date. It has become the sixth highest-grossing film of all-time at the global box office, passing 2015's "Jurassic World" (1.67 billion dollars) and 2019's "The Lion King" (1.66 billion dollars). "Spider-Man: No Way Home," released on Dec. 17, 2021, remained victorious at the North American box office for four weeks until it was dethroned in its fifth weekend by Paramount's horror film "Scream." Based on the Marvel Comics character Spider-Man, the latest film in the Marvel Cinematic Universe is the sequel to the 2017 "Spider-Man: Homecoming" and 2019 "Spider-Man: Far From Home." Directed by Jon Watts, it is the third Tom Holland-led Spider-Man film. "Scream" came in a close second this weekend with 12.4 million dollars. The film has amassed 51.34 million dollars in its first 10 days in North American cinemas. The fifth installment in the "Scream" film franchise is a direct sequel to "Scream 4," which earned around 38 million dollars in North America for a global total of 97 million dollars in 2011. Twenty-five years after a streak of brutal murders shocked the quiet town of Woodsboro, a new killer has donned the Ghostface mask and begins targeting a group of teenagers to resurrect secrets from the town's deadly past in the latest "Scream" film directed by Matt Bettinelli-Olpin and Tyler Gillett. Neve Campbell, Courteney Cox and David Arquette return to their iconic roles in the film alongside Melissa Barrera, Kyle Gallner, Mason Gooding, Mikey Madison, Dylan Minnette and Jenna Ortega. Universal's animated musical comedy film "Sing 2" remained in third place with 5.71 million dollars in its fifth weekend for a North American total of 128.41 million dollars. Directed by Garth Jennings, the film features an all-star cast of voice talents, including Matthew McConaughey, Reese Witherspoon, Scarlett Johansson, Taron Egerton and Tori Kelly. Buster Moon, the ever-optimistic koala who owns the Moon theater, and his performers must persuade the world's most reclusive rock star to join them for the opening of a dazzling stage extravaganza in the sequel. A newcomer, Universal's romance film "Redeeming Love," opened in fourth place with 3.7 million dollars this weekend. Based on the bestselling novel by Francine Rivers, the film is a powerful story of relentless love and perseverance as a young couple's relationship clashes with the harsh realities of the California Gold Rush of 1850. Directed by D. J. Caruso, the film stars Abigail Cowen, Tom Lewis, Nina Dobrev and Eric Dane. Twentieth Century Studios' spy action film "The King's Man" rounded out the top five with 1.77 million dollars in its fifth weekend for a North American total of 31.51 million dollars. Directed by Matthew Vaughn, the prequel to the 2014 "Kingsman: The Secret Service" and 2017 "Kingsman: The Golden Circle" stars Ralph Fiennes, Gemma Arterton, Rhys Ifans, Matthew Goode, Tom Hollander and Harris Dickinson among others. As a collection of history's worst tyrants and criminal masterminds gather to plot a war to wipe out millions, someone must race against time to stop them in the new film which presents the story of the birth of the Kingsman organization, a secret independent international intelligence agency.  ■