 A firefighter works to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  A firefighter works to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  Firefighters work to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  Firefighters work to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  Firefighters work to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  Firefighters work to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  Firefighters work to extinguish a fire burning at an apartment building in Toronto, Canada, on Jan. 15, 2022. Eleven people were rescued, among whom four were taken to hospital following a four-alarm fire at a low-rise apartment building in Toronto on Saturday morning, according to local media. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)