by Lillian Banda LUSAKA, Jan. 25 (Xinhua) -- As Zambian agribusinesses look to diversify, adding value to farm produce is increasingly becoming a venture that many are seeking to invest in. It is for this reason that meat processing training programs have become popular particularly among those involved in livestock business in Zambia. Among those spearheading this innovation is Motivational Center for Africa's Transformation, a Zambian business consultancy firm that has for nearly a decade facilitated entrepreneurial training programs in the country. Motivational Center for Africa's Transformation has since introduced meat processing masterclasses aimed at encouraging agribusinesses to diversify by adding value to farm produce using simple and affordable machinery. "This master class is perfect for those that wish to expand their business by simply adding value to fish, goats, cattle and pigs as well as chickens, said Gilbert Banda, lead consultant at Motivational Center for Africa's Transformation. Banda explained that the training program equips participants with knowledge and skills on how to start a meat processing business including investing in the right equipment. He expressed happiness at the increase in the number of people wishing to take part in the said training program, from which participants emerge with a certificate in meat processing. "The response from the Zambian community has been very encouraging. We are now set to conduct meat processing master class programs in the Democratic Republic of Congo, Malawi, Botswana and Angola," Banda revealed. Kasumba Lupeka, one of the people that took part in the meat processing master class training program pointed out that the initiative is a worthwhile undertaking that will present more opportunities for livestock traders. Lupeka, 23, a resident of Luanshya, a town on the Copperbelt Province of Zambia commended Motivational Center for Africa's Transformation for enabling agribusinesses to create more income opportunities through value addition. "I now look forward to selling pork and other processed-meat products after about a year of trading in pigs," she said. And Chileshe Muchindika Ngwane, proprietor of Amakwataz Farms, a Zambian company known for processing and selling meat products observed that more agribusinesses in Zambia are beginning to venture into value addition. Muchindika-Ngwane, 38, explained that value addition is one sure way of diversifying the Zambian agriculture sector which has huge potential and immense economic opportunities.  ■