 Photo taken on Jan. 5, 2022 shows signs installed in the streets to raise awareness among the populations so that they can be vaccinated against COVID-19 before going to the stadium in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) of football, a biennial competition will kick off this Sunday in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. As an important sport event on the continent, it has attracted the attention of all Cameroonian fans. As a prelude to the opening ceremony, an atmosphere of this competition could already be remarked in the city. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua)  Photo taken on Jan. 2, 2022 shows a street decorated with garlands installed in the shape of a football in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) of football, a biennial competition will kick off this Sunday in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. As an important sport event on the continent, it has attracted the attention of all Cameroonian fans. As a prelude to the opening ceremony, an atmosphere of this competition could already be remarked in the city. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua)  Photo taken on Jan. 4, 2022 shows a young man on the street selling gadgets with colors of the Cameroon flag in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) of football, a biennial competition will kick off this Sunday in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. As an important sport event on the continent, it has attracted the attention of all Cameroonian fans. As a prelude to the opening ceremony, an atmosphere of this competition could already be remarked in the city. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua)  Photo taken on Jan. 4, 2022 shows an electronic panel scrolling images of the 8th edition of the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) that Cameroon hosted in 1972 in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) of football, a biennial competition will kick off this Sunday in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. As an important sport event on the continent, it has attracted the attention of all Cameroonian fans. As a prelude to the opening ceremony, an atmosphere of this competition could already be remarked in the city. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua)  Photo taken on 21 December 2021 shows a local fashion designer in his shop displaying traditional clothes made for the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) of football, a biennial competition will kick off this Sunday in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. As an important sport event on the continent, it has attracted the attention of all Cameroonian fans. As a prelude to the opening ceremony, an atmosphere of this competition could already be remarked in the city. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua)  Photo taken on Jan. 4, 2022 shows a young man in the street selling the Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) program in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. Africa Cup of Nations (AFCON) of football, a biennial competition will kick off this Sunday in Yaounde, capital of Cameroon. As an important sport event on the continent, it has attracted the attention of all Cameroonian fans. As a prelude to the opening ceremony, an atmosphere of this competition could already be remarked in the city. (Photo by Kepseu/Xinhua)