by Julia Pierrepont III COSTA MESA, the United States, Jan. 30 (Xinhua) -- South Coast Plaza (SCP), the largest shopping center on the West Coast of the United States, is ringing in the Chinese New Year with roar, as it unveiled a massive Tiger display in the Jewel Court on Thursday, followed by musical performances and cultural displays on Saturday. SCP, located 60 kilometers south of Los Angeles downtown, had pre-COVID-19 sales of over 1.5 billion U.S. dollars annually, the highest in the United States. In honor of the Year of the Tiger, SCP erected a stunning central display featuring a giant tiger leaping over animated and digital waterfall, representing the water element that aligns with the tiger this year in Chinese mythology. The traditional 12-year Chinese Zodiac cycles through different animals each year: Rat, Ox, Tiger, Rabbit, Dragon, Snake, Horse, Goat, Monkey, Rooster, Dog and Pig, whose traits reportedly influence the personality of the people born in their year. And each year, the featured animal is paired with one of the five elements of water, wood, fire, earth or metal. Last year was the Year of the Ox, noted for its strength, perseverance and dependability, whereas this year is the Year of the Tiger, known as the king of beasts in China, which represents courage, self-esteem, forcefulness and vitality. The waterfall bubbles into a digital Koi pond that symbolizes flow and good fortune. Included in the beautifully landscaped display is a life-sized, arched red bridge for shoppers to stroll over as they throw their lucky coins into the pond for an interactive experience as they make their New Year's wishes. An ornate temple gateway, lush foliage symbolic of success and virtue, and constellations of red lanterns and auspicious Chinese gold coins hanging overhead complete the stunning display. Nature plays an important part in the festival, so the majestic tiger is composed of natural materials, such as white straw flowers, black onion seeds and other seeds, while sheet moss, seeds and bamboo decorate the rock accents around the pond. Surrounding the tiger is a 12-foot-tall collection of bamboo, symbolic of success and virtue. SCP said in a release that their Chinese News Year celebration was designed to promote cultural diversity and mutual respect, and the Consul General of China in Los Angeles described the festivities as "a joyous coming together to celebrate good fortune, good heath, and great happiness." The Chinese Lunar New Year, or the Spring Festival, is the most important festival in China and many other nations, like South Korea, Vietnam, Singapore, Japan, and even the United States, where people of Asian origins have blended various New Year traditions. It is a happy and hopeful holiday that traditionally centers around reuniting with  family members and spending quality time with them, and taking part in gift-giving and dragon dance and lantern celebrations. And of course, SCP's ever popular "Gift with Purchase" program is back, featuring an exclusive Liuli Crystal Art Vase with select purchases and other tiger-motif product lines in participating shops. Liuli means ancient Chinese glass or crystal. Debra Gunn Downing, SCP Executive Director of Marketing, said the tiger is indicative of how "powerful and bountiful this year is going to be - so who wouldn't want tiger merchandize to celebrate?" This year, SCP also features cultural exhibitions assembled by the Chinese Consulate in Los Angeles and the Network of International Culturalink Entities (NICE). These include two delightful photo exhibits, with the first one called "Celebrating Chinese New Year with Kids around the World" featuring beguiling photos of joyful children enjoying the festive atmosphere with their parents and grandparents, in raptures over Chinese New Year twinkling lights, red lanterns and sugar treats. The second multi-cultural photo exhibit is entitled "Happy Spring Festival with Dragon Dance Performances" exhibiting gorgeous photos from around China and the world of communities ringing in the holiday with traditional dragon dances. Traditional red or gold dragon and more modern, multi-colored ones, writhe through the streets, set against ancient Chinese villages or far-flung countries. The photos capture images of excited dragon dancers as they skip, leap, shake and weave in a complicated and coordinated choreography to bring their dragon puppets alive with grace, intensity and enthusiasm.  ■