 A cinema is seen closed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  The closed dining area of a Burger King is seen in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  The food court with closed dining area is seen at a shopping center in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  People wearing face masks walk past a closed theater in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  A woman wearing a face mask walks past the closed Art Gallery of Ontario in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  A man runs past a closed fitness club in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  A man wearing a face mask walks past a closed fitness club in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  A cinema is seen closed in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)  The closed dining area of a Burger King is seen in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on Jan. 5, 2022. In response to recent trends that show an alarming increase in COVID-19 hospitalizations, the Ontario government on Wednesday started to impose measures to blunt transmission of the virus for at least 21 days, including closing gyms, theaters, cinemas, museums, galleries and banning indoor dining at restaurants. (Photo by Zou Zheng/Xinhua)