LONDON, Jan. 10 (Xinhua) -- Britain continues to record high numbers of COVID-19 cases, with the national death toll now exceeding 150,000. One family caught up in the pandemic has recently told Xinhua about the impact it has had on their household. "What we've learned as a family is that we can never take anything for granted. We can't avoid it. It's going to creep up on us," said Sid O'Neill, who lives in an industrial town just outside Liverpool. All six of the working-class family, including O'Neill and his wife Lisa, as well as their four grown children aged 20-35, have had COVID-19 during the pandemic without knowing how any of them got the virus. "We both have jobs that were never shut down. We both worked all the way through lockdown," said O'Neill, who actually collected infected waste for a living. Britain, among many countries, has experienced a heavy strain on the medical system amid the COVID-19 surge. According to O'Neill, the doctors and nurses at the hospital which Lisa was admitted to were extremely busy, which intensified the anxiety of the family. In the first few hours, he recalled, "Lisa was left in the emergency department (A&E) for over 12 hours without any monitoring." "Lisa was in hospital for at least a few weeks. Obviously it was very worrying, and added to that was we weren't allowed to visit her," said O'Neill. More than 90 percent of people aged 12 and over in Britain have had their first dose of vaccine and more than 83 percent have received both doses, according to the latest figures. Commenting on the response of the British government to the pandemic, O'Neill said: "I think probably early on, right at the beginning of this, maybe they could have shut the airports down a lot quicker and stopped planes coming in." "And I think we probably should have locked the country down a lot stricter and a lot sooner in the early stages," he added. Although things in the O'Neill household have more or less returned to normal, O'Neill still feels sad for what the family has experienced, saying that the pandemic can hardly end in the short run. "Looking to the future for our family, any hopes of a celebration have really never entered my head. It's something we will look back with a sadness, with the impact it's had on people's lives, on the economy, on businesses, and whether we can celebrate it as a country if we get through this, I'm not sure." Britain reported another 142,224 coronavirus cases on Monday, bringing the national tally to 14,617,314.  ■