 A firefighter piles up a tree during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  Firefighters remove a tree from a vehicle during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  Firefighters collect trees during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A firefighter tries to remove a tree from a vehicle during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  People hand a tree to firefighters during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A firefighter piles up a tree during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A firefighter carries a tree during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A firefighter carries a tree during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A firefighter tries to remove a tree from a vehicle during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A firefighter receives a donation as he collects a tree from a resident during the annual Christmas tree chipping event in Richmond, British Columbia, Canada, on Jan. 8, 2022. Firefighters volunteered to help residents recycle their Christmas trees at the annual tree chipping event. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)