LONDON, Feb. 11 (Xinhua) -- While the growth of Britain's gross domestic product (GDP) in 2021 reached a new high, its contraction last December told another story. As the impact of Omicron was expected to fade, concerns over inflation and a deepening cost-of-living crisis took center stage. Britain's GDP is estimated to have grown by 7.5 percent in 2021, bouncing back from a 9.4 percent fall in 2020 because of the initial impact of COVID-19 and public health restrictions, the country's Office for National Statistics (ONS) said Friday. It came as "the strongest annual, peace-time GDP growth" for the country in almost a century, according to the Resolution Foundation, a think tank. The fast growth was in large part due to the big recession in 2020, it added. Meanwhile, the country's monthly GDP fell by 0.2 percent in December 2021 to equal its pre-pandemic level in February 2020, the ONS said, adding that services were the main contributor to the fall, detracting 0.4 percentage points from GDP growth. "The story of December was one of cancellations and caution, as consumers jettisoned their plans to avoid bringing COVID home for Christmas," said Kitty Ussher, chief economist at the Institute of Directors, a British professional organization. With output in consumer-facing services down 3.0 percent in December 2021 compared to the previous month, "today's data shows the impact of this screeching halt to the festive cheer," added Ussher. As the shrinkage of the economy was mainly a result of Omicron and related restrictions, the impact has generally gone down in the country. In a latest move to get back to normalcy, the government has announced plans to remove all remaining restrictions in England a month earlier than planned. Concerns therefore have shifted. Instead of Omicron, "high inflation will be with us for longer and, together with the rise in taxes in April, will restrain GDP growth this year," said Paul Dales, chief UK economist at the Capital Economics, an economic research consultancy. Echoing the view, Rain Newton-Smith, chief economist at the Confederation of British Industry, said that while the worst of the impact of Omicron and restrictions appears to be over, "firms are still grappling with supply shortages and cost pressures, while households are facing a looming cost of living crisis." After the country's Consumer Prices Index rose by 5.4 percent in the 12 months to December 2021, reaching its highest level since 1992, Britain's central bank said earlier this month that inflation is expected to increase further in the coming months, to close to six percent in February and March, before peaking at around 7.25 percent in April. Noting that all of the output lost as a result of Omicron during December and January is expected to be regained in February and March, Tom Pugh, an economist at RSM UK, a business advisory firm, said the rebound may be "relatively short-lived," as inflation will continue to rocket in the coming months. Pugh said there is some early evidence that households are leveraging their stronger balance sheets by saving less and borrowing more to absorb some of the hit from the surge in inflation, and that this should prevent some of the damage to the real economy from the cost-of-living crunch. Nevertheless, he added: "2022 will be a struggle for many households and middle-market businesses." Containing 14 new independent forecasts, a report on the British economy published by the economic and finance ministry in January showed an average forecast of 4.4 percent for the country's GDP growth in 2022.  ■