SUVA, Feb. 24 (Xinhua) -- The Reserve Bank of Fiji (RBF) said Thursday that the domestic economic activity indicators in January have been mostly favourable for the island nation. According to a statement issued by the RBF, Ariff Ali, governor of the central bank, said following the opening of borders in December, Fiji has since received 47,120 visitors in two months, compared to almost no tourists in the preceding 18 months. Ali said electricity production noted an annual growth while mineral water production grew strongly on the back of robust external demand. In contrast, timber and gold output contracted due to planned mill closure and adverse weather conditions. Ali said over the same period, consumption activity picked up as indicated by a growth in Net Value Added Tax collections, commercial banks' new consumption lending and new vehicle sales, in line with eased COVID-19 restrictions, re-opened borders and the recommencement of many businesses. On the other hand, both cement production and sales declined in January, as uncertainty around the economic recovery continued to weigh on investor activity. On the financial sector, Ali highlighted that higher foreign reserves inflows, quantitative easing and the drawdown of the RBF's lending facilities have underpinned the increase in money supply in January. Ali said the year-end inflation forecast for 2022 has been revised up to 4.5 percent due to high imported inflation amidst rising global commodity prices, supply chain disruptions, the pick-up in foreign demand and the recent domestic floods. He said annual inflation was 2.7 percent in January largely led by these factors. According to the RBF, as global demand and supply mismatches normalize and commodity prices stabilize, inflationary pressures are expected to subside. Ali said the rebound in tourism activity and government external loan drawdowns are anticipated to keep foreign reserves at adequate levels into the medium term. The outlook for 2022 remains positive, as the December 2021 Business Expectations and Retail Sales Surveys showed that the retail activity is expected to rebound in 2022 to double digit growth after two years of dismal sales, underpinned by easing of restrictions and more inbound tourists, along with businesses adapting to new ways of operation.  ■