by Lillian Banda LUSAKA, Feb. 13 (Xinhua) -- For Zambian youths, recycling is more than just advocating sustainable use of natural resources. It is also a good means to make money. Y Climate Action, a youth-centered organization in Ndola, the capital of Zambia's Copperbelt Province, is one of many that have adopted recycling as a strategy to help economically empower young people. The organization makes lanterns and bags, among other things, out of discarded paper. The objects are sold, and the earnings are utilized to provide material assistance to underprivileged kids as well as to raise environmental awareness. According to Y Climate Action Ambassador Rebecca Nkunde, the organization also holds seminars and training sessions aimed at encouraging young people to lead the way in recycling initiatives. "We attempt to highlight the numerous opportunities that now exist in the recycling business that youngsters can use to create jobs while also protecting the environment," Nkunde said. Chiyanjano Farmers cooperative, situated in Lusaka, Zambia's capital, is another youth-led enterprise that is leveraging opportunities in the recycling arena to produce money. The cooperative, set up about two years ago by a group of young people, is renowned for making eco-friendly charcoal and poultry incubators. Leftover charcoal bits are used to make charcoal briquettes, which are used as chicken heaters, while disused freezers are utilized to make poultry incubators. According to Chiyanjano Farmers Cooperative's leader Joseph Nasilele, incubators fashioned from old refrigerators are inexpensive and easier to maintain than traditional ones. "Our mission is to make poultry farming more affordable, especially for newcomers. Our vision is to be a one-stop shop for eco-friendly and affordable poultry farming products," Nasilele said. He went on to say that climate change has resulted in extraordinary ideas and innovations, and that Zambian youths would continue to dominate the recycling area since they are the ones that drive innovation.  ■