NAIROBI, Feb. 1 (Xinhua) -- Kenyan President Kenyatta Tuesday called on the International Finance Corporation (IFC) and other World Bank constituent financial institutions to provide more support to the private sector to spur Kenya's economic growth. Kenyatta who spoke in the Kenyan capital Nairobi, during a meeting with IFC Managing Director Makhtar Diop said his government has come a long way in creating an enabling environment for investors in different sectors. "Kenya has the potential to accelerate its economic growth and I am confident that with your partnership we can achieve that goal," he said in a statement issued by the presidency. Kenyatta said IFC, the World Bank's private lending arm, has the potential to help in making Kenya a lucrative investment hub through supporting the private sector in implementing the Government's Big 4 Agenda. Diop who led a high-level delegation briefed the President on the involvement of IFC in different economic sectors under the government's development blueprint, dubbed the Big 4 Agenda covering manufacturing, food security, affordable housing and universal healthcare. "I will have roundtable discussions with stakeholders in the pharmaceuticals and housing sectors to see how best we can collaborate to ensure realization of affordable healthcare and housing for the Kenyan people,"  Diop said. Kenyatta and Diop also discussed a plan that Kenya is keen on implementing to manufacture vaccines. Kenyatta appreciated the role IFC has been playing in supporting Kenya's private sector, noting that the Big 4 Agenda has opened even more opportunities for increased collaboration through the country's Public-Private Partnership programme. "We believe there is still a role that you can play in enabling the private sector to participate more in support of our provision of affordable housing, universal healthcare, food security and manufacturing through Public-Private Partnerships," he said. Diop assured the President of his institution's commitment to continue supporting Kenya's development agenda through private sector financing. He said IFC intends to achieve its goals by providing inclusive financing and boosting recovery by developing the capital markets. "We look forward to working more closely with the private sector in Kenya which is already vibrant and enable it to contribute more significantly in the achievement of the country's development goals as well as promote intra-Africa trade. It is time for Africa, as a continent, to begin trading within itself," Diop said. Diop said his institution is keen on providing financial support to the private sector in implementing environmental adaptation and mitigation projects.  ■