 People visit the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa) CAIRO, Feb. 15 (Xinhua) -- More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. The three-day expo, which started on Monday, is North Africa and the Mediterranean's most important oil and gas exhibition that brings together government representatives, global CEOs, international service providers, consultants and financiers to address the evolving opportunities in the global energy market. Expected to attract some 26,000 attendees from local and international businesses, the show is meant to identify opportunities from Egypt, the North Africa and Mediterranean's future project requirements, and strategic priorities in the oil and gas sector. It also provides direct access to the primary stakeholders involved in detailing the regions upcoming project plans, budget allocations, timelines, technical challenges and the opportunities to win contracts. "It is a very important event as it helps us get in direct with new companies working in the field inside Egypt," said Fady Michel, marketing manager of an Egyptian lifting equipment company which focuses on inspection, certification, supply and production of all types of lifting gear. He noted that this year's visitor turnout is huge as last year despite the spread of COVID-19 pandemic, adding that new companies have joined the exhibition this year. "New companies joining the show means new business opportunities for us ... this is what makes the show an important platform for all service providers," Michel told Xinhua. "Here we can showcase our products and services to over 20,000 attendees and establish our company's presence as a key industry player in the region," he added, The Egyptian Ministry of Petroleum and Mineral Resources estimated that the total investments in the oil and Gas sectors from 2014 to 2020 hit 74 billion U.S. dollars in Egypt. Egypt aims to become a regional hub for the trade of oil and liquefied natural gas after major discoveries were made in recent years, including the Zohr gas field in the Mediterranean which holds an estimated 30 trillion cubic feet of gas. For visitors seeking business opportunities, the show will allow them to source new strategies, products and investment opportunities on the spot, negotiate contracts, and sign agreements. "This platform enables me to network with key Egyptian, North African and Mediterranean industry stakeholders and decision makers to discover the latest investment opportunities," Emad Abdel-Fattah, manager of an Egyptian company for petroleum services. He noted that he can also acquire insights into the future of the oil and gas industry from over 260 speakers across the five conference streams running over the three days of the show. "The exhibition also helps me identify cutting edge technologies, to evaluate, compare, review and source products and suppliers that meet our demands," Abdel-Fattah told Xinhua. ■  People visit the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)  People visit the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)  People visit the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)  People visit the booth of Crosby, a manufacturer for rigging, lifting, and material handling applications, at the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)  People visit the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)  People visit the booth of workwear company Portwest at the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show in Cairo, Egypt, on Feb. 15, 2022. More than 450 exhibitors from over 20 countries are attending the 5th Egypt Petroleum Show held in the Egyptian capital of Cairo, to seek business and identify solutions to reshape the global energy market. (Xinhua/Ahmed Gomaa)