CAIRO, Feb. 7 (Xinhua) -- Egyptian President Abdel-Fattah al-Sisi and his visiting Djiboutian counterpart Ismail Omar Guelleh discussed on Monday bilateral relations and regional issues of common interest. During a joint press conference in Cairo, Sisi said the visit of Guelleh is a continuation of the communication and coordination between the two countries at various bilateral and regional levels, and a follow-up to the results of their consultations during Sisi's visit to Djibouti last May. "This outreach underscores the long-standing strategic relations that unite our two countries across all levels," said Sisi, noting the bilateral ties over the past period have witnessed significant steps in all political and economic fields. The talks have been characterized by openness and transparency that reflected the two countries' consensus on many bilateral and regional issues, the Egyptian president added. "We discussed all aspects of the ongoing cooperation between the two countries, notably at the economic, trade and investment levels, as well as means to further advance them in a manner that befits the distinguished political relations between our two countries," he said. The two sides agreed on the importance of necessary support to boost mutual investments, the contribution of Egyptian companies to economic development efforts in Djibouti, and efforts to inaugurate a branch of Bank Misr there. "We stressed the need to strengthen our efforts to increase the volume of trade exchange between the two countries and establish an Egyptian logistic zone in Djibouti," Sisi said, noting they also discussed efforts to foster closer cooperation in the fields of transport and ports connectivity, as well as efforts to establish direct flights between Cairo and Djibouti City. The two presidents also exchanged views on joint cooperation in the areas of education and health. Sisi reiterated Egypt's commitment to the persistent support for Djibouti, and providing training and building capacities in various fields. Sisi said they also discussed the developments in the disputed Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD), underscoring Egypt's political will to reach a legally-binding agreement on the filling and operation of the dam within an appropriate timeframe.  ■