by Xin Ping BEIJING, Feb. 15 (Xinhua) -- At the height of the COVID-19 pandemic, a wealthy family in New York prepared at their private clinic four sets of ventilators for their teenage daughter, in case she got affected while partying outside with friends. Meanwhile, meters away on the street, untreated homeless people are dying from the virus without any hope of access to the machine. In a photograph of a U.S. hospital, a white journalist "armed to the teeth" in full set of PPE, goggles and N95 mask, is interviewing a black medical worker wrapped up herself in garbage bags and two layers of surgical masks. Those are neither dystopian scenes nor a dark-humor political satire, but a reality happening in the United States, the wealthiest country on earth that has reported the highest number of COVID-19 fatalities. One can still recall the day when the New York Times listed on its front page the names of 1,000 COVID-19 victims as the U.S. death toll had approached the threshold of 100,000, but no one ever expected then that the fatality exceeded the total population of the 15th most populous U.S. city and is heading toward 1 million today. It is noteworthy that the population of the United States is only one fourth of that of China, whereas the U.S. death toll of COVID-19 is 160 times larger than that of China. The hard truth about the pandemic situation in the country suggests nothing but a man-made disaster. There has been no sustained and proactive response from the U.S. government to contain the virus. Science has been highly politicized with party politics and interests coming first before the well-being of the general public. Two years into the pandemic, the mask mandate in different states is being executed along the party line rather than based on infection data. Workplace vaccine mandate has been denied by the highly politicized Supreme Court. In a report released late January, the Government Accountability Office, a U.S. government watchdog, placed the Department of Health and Human Services on a "high-risk" list because of the lack of leadership and preparedness for the coronavirus and other outbreaks of disease. Facing the uphill fight against the pandemic, the United States is taking a "lie-flat" approach. It is quickly surrendering to the Omicron variant without even bothering to contain it. The Wall Street Journal even published an article titled "Slow the spread? Speeding it may be safer" at the onset of the Omicron wave. Janet Woodcock, acting commissioner of the Food and Drug Administration, simply announced "most people are going to get COVID." As daily cases in China almost dropped to less than 100, data in the United States once jumped to 800,000 a day in mid-January due to the new variant. With hospitalizations reaching record levels, the Omicron wave depleted U.S. medical workers who had already been worn out by the Delta variant. More alarmingly, serious racial discrimination and inequality between the rich and poor have been laid bare by policy failure to tackle COVID-19. As a Harvard study suggests, a young black person is as high as nine times more likely to die from the deadly virus than a young non-hispanic white person, and the death rate of COVID-19 for the impoverished people is around four times higher than that of the rich. According to a report of Stanford News, the pandemic has disproportionately impacted communities of color and highlighted the health disparities between black Americans, whites and other demographic groups. If the authorities do not care, the privileged do not bother, the dead cannot speak, people vote with their own feet. That is clearly evidenced by the latest Edelman Trust Barometer 2022, which indicated public trust in the U.S. government has fallen to 43 percent, one of the biggest slumps across the world. Unfortunately, the U.S. politicians have failed to realize that the right to health and life is either for all or for none. Before that, no one knows how many Americans will lose their lives to the virus.  Enditem (Xin Ping is a commentator on international affairs, writing regularly for Global Times, China Daily, etc. He can be reached at xinping604@gmail.com)