OTTAWA, Feb. 19 (Xinhua) -- Canadian authorities said Friday that their efforts to end a weeks-long trucker-led protest in the capital city have made real progress, with over 100 protesters including several organizers being arrested in the move. "Here in Ottawa, the past 24 hours have marked an important turning point in the operation," Public Safety Minister Marco Mendicino said in a virtual press conference also joined by other cabinet ministers, adding that "the enforcement operations are being undertaken." Mendicino asked protesters to leave as soon as they can for the safety of themselves, the Canadian people as well as those law enforcement officers who are discharging their responsibilities. As part of the self-titled "Freedom Convoy 2022," the protest is reaching its fourth weekend in a row. It started out as a rally of truckers against the requirement that Canadian truck drivers crossing the border into the United States be fully vaccinated as of mid-January. After being joined by thousands of pedestrian protesters, it then turned into a demonstration against the government's overall restrictive measures during the COVID-19 pandemic. Mendicino also briefed some new developments about the border ports. Following a number of enforcement operations taken by police, all major ports of entry remain open for trade and travel across the country, he said. "While we've made progress, the blockades are not ended, there is an ongoing and fluid situation," the minister said, calling the protesters' attempt to block capital streets and border with the United States "illegal." In early February, protesters blocked the Ambassador Bridge, one of the busiest international border crossings connecting Windsor, Ontario and Detroit, Michigan. The bridge has fully reopened on Feb. 13 after police cleared out the blockade and made arrests. Thanks to the work of law enforcement, the protesters' attempts to resume the blockade have been thwarted, the minister said. Meanwhile, authorities are taking financial measures to rein in blockades. "If your truck is being used in these protests, your bank account will be frozen and your insurance will be suspended," said Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Chrystia Freeland in the press conference. The Canadian parliament suspended Friday's debate on an emergencies act, since the police operation around the Parliament Hill made it unsafe for politicians to attend.  ■