 A man films a lion dance at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A man live-streams a lion dance at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  People watch a lion dance from outside through the windows at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A woman films a lion dance at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  Lion dance performers demonstrate in front of a camera during an event at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  A man performs a lion dance at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)  People watch a lion dance from outside through the windows at St. John's College, the University of British Columbia, in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, on Feb. 3, 2022. A lion dance was performed here on Thursday for people who may watch online or from outside through the windows, marking the Chinese New Year amid the COVID-19 pandemic. (Photo by Liang Sen/Xinhua)