KIEV, Feb. 7 (Xinhua) -- "Xin Nian Kuai Le. Wan Shi Ru Yi," -- students, teachers and staffs at Kiev Gymnasium of Oriental Languages No. 1 are greeting each other in Chinese wishing "Happy New Year and good luck in everything" to celebrate the Lunar New Year. "The Spring Festival is a family holiday, and our gymnasium is a united family. Therefore, the spring festival this year and every year turns into a family celebration," Tatyana Pavlenok, an elementary school teacher at the school, told Xinhua. Founded in 1936, the school has been offering Chinese language classes for Ukrainian and foreign students since 1956. Currently, more than 600 students are studying Chinese in the school. The Spring Festival is celebrated here each year, and this time, holiday atmosphere reigns everywhere inside the school. Walls of the hall and the classrooms are embellished with festive decorations, including traditional red paper lanterns, paper cutouts, garlands, and even drawings depicting Tiger, the symbol of this year. "We always involve children in various creative activities, we hold workshops for them on making lanterns, we hold calligraphy contests, drawing contests, Chinese language contests and make this holiday interesting for them," Pavlenok said. Pavlenok, who graduated from the education institute in 1980 and then learned Chinese in Russia, has been working at the school for over 30 years. In 1993-1994, Pavlenok lived in Harbin, capital of northeast China's Heilongjiang Province, as a part of a teacher exchange program, during which she was impressed by the way of celebrating the Lunar New Year in Chinese families. "In China, it is not just a game, but a tradition ... people eat dumplings and present red envelopes with money and gifts," the teacher said. "At the school, children see only part of the celebrations. Without the Chinese environment, immersion in the culture, it is difficult to convey the atmosphere of the holiday, but we try our best," Pavlenok said. According to her, Chinese teachers from the Confucius class, who also work in the school, introduce Chinese traditions of Spring Festival celebrations to Ukrainian youth. Meanwhile, Chinese teachers were also invited to celebrate the Lunar New Year together to ease their homesickness. As the popularity of the Chinese language and culture in Ukraine is rising, She added, families of the school students also join the Spring Festival celebrations in recent years. With the development of China, the parents are more willing to support their children to learn Chinese, Pavlenok added. During the celebration, the students of the school also recorded a video message to Chinese people and performed the Lunar New Year song "Gongxi-gongxi," and chanted "we love Chinese culture dearly! Happy New Year!" This year's Lunar New Year Festival is special as it coincides with the Olympic Winter Games Beijing 2022. As a part of the celebrations, students of the school prepared and demonstrated presentations about the Olympic competitions and participated in quizzes about famous Olympic venues in China. "The Spring Festival and the celebration of the beginning of the Winter Olympics in China are symbolic. It creates a bridge of friendship," Pavlenok said, wishing Chinese people good health and Olympic athletes good luck. She voiced the hope that the Beijing Winter Olympics would bring peace to the whole world. The festivities in the school would last till the Lantern Festival, which falls on the 15th day of the first lunar month, or Feb. 15 this year.  ■