WINDHOEK, Feb. 14 (Xinhua) -- The central business district of Windhoek, Namibia's capital, was a bustle of activity with red and white themed products visible at temporary stalls. The Valentine's Day observance in Namibia sparked the entrepreneurial acumen of the country's youth, powering up business growth for many. Ernest David from Windhoek, Namibia's capital, decided to sell pre-packaged gift sets at a famous mall in the central business district to generate an income after a prolonged period without a formal job. "I hoped to maximise on the peak period marking Valentine's Day. People want to express love; I grabbed this opportunity," he said on Monday. His packages and products were offered in various categories, based on clientele needs, with prices ranging between 100 Namibian dollars to 500 Namibian dollars. "I have had some clients, and I managed to generate more during this period than I would from my daily hustles," he added. At a local mall, young Selma juggled between wrapping and receiving payments from a client. "It has been busy. Which is good for us," said the final year student at a local university, who assisted at one of the temporary stalls of Valentine's Day themed products set up at the mall. Items sold included flowers, teddy bears, branded mugs and other accessories. Selma's move to sell was inspired by stamina to generate extra income to sustain her student life, online learning and social lifestyle. "I will re-invest the profit in another project. Who knows, this may be a start for my entrepreneurial journey," she added. Traders maximised on social media to market their services and specials. "Apart from the actual stall, I also took some orders online and facilitated deliveries," said Vicky Victoria, a 30-year-old from Swakopmund. On her social media pages for Mekenificent Wellness Centre, Meke Namindo, a fitness and wellness coach, posted specials for nutrition, wellness and fitness packages. "It's the month of love, and over Valentine's Day weekend, we're bringing you the No Love Lost Fitness," the post read. For locals like Apollo Shigwedha, the easily accessible gift packages made it easy to get a gift for his loved ones. "They also came at a bargain, and I have been able to save," Shigwedha said. Meanwhile, the young traders hope to maximise e-commerce to bolster their business efforts in the future. "It will certainly aid faster business activity on site when it comes to payment. This time around, we handled so much petty cash," said David. But for now, the young Namibians enjoy the fruits of their labour. "I thank all my customers and Valentine's Day fever," Selma said.  ■