PARIS, Feb. 4 (Xinhua) -- Though surging cases are still weighting on the long-strained health systems in Europe, multiple European countries have decided to scrap COVID-19 restrictions, relying on vaccination to reach "collective immunity."  SURGING COVID-19 CASES In Germany, dail COVID-19 infections hit a new records on Thursday, with 236,120 new infections and 164 deaths registered in the past 24 hours, according to the country's disease control agency the Robert Koch Institute. France reported some 274,000 new cases on Thursday. According to its Public Health Agency, almost 33,000 patients are currently hospitalized, including 3,642 in critical care. Belgium is in the throes of its fifth wave of the pandemic, with up to 60,000 daily cases. Official figures on Thursday showed Britain added 88,171 new cases and 303 deaths in the latest 24 hours, bringing the national counts to 17,607,832 and 157,730 respectively. The most recent surge of new infections in the Netherlands followed the government's decision on Jan. 25 to further relax its COVID-19 policy. The Omicron wave in the country is far from over yet, said the Dutch National Institute for Public Health and the Environment. In recent weeks, Austria has seen surging COVID-19 infections driven by Omicron, with daily infections hovering around 30,000 cases in the past two weeks, according to data from the Austrian Interior Ministry. Romania is approaching the peak of the fifth wave of the pandemic, with 32,671 new cases reported on Thursday.  RESTRICTIONS LIFTED Starting from Feb. 2, certain COVID-19 related restrictions were lifted in France, French Prime Minister Jean Castex announced on Jan. 20 during a press conference. The caps on the number of people allowed in indoor and outdoor events will be lifted. Masks will no longer be required outdoors. Teleworking will no longer be mandatory, but still encouraged. Starting from Feb. 16, standing in bars, concerts and the opening of nightclubs will be allowed. The Finnish government also decided to ease the restrictions on restaurants from Feb. 14. Restaurants can serve drinks until 11 p.m. and remain open until midnight. An official with the Italian government told local media that Italy would abandon most of the COVID-19 restrictions at the end of February, and would not extend the state of emergency at the end of March. Starting Feb. 5, restaurants and shops will be allowed to open in Austria until midnight. Besides, rules effectively barring unvaccinated people from restaurants and stores will be phased out. Starting Feb. 19, people without proof of vaccination or recent recovery will be able to visit restaurants and tourist attractions using a negative coronavirus test result. The Dutch government has decided to further relax its COVID-19 policy, reopening all restaurants, cafes, cinemas, museums and theaters under certain conditions. Malta, where outdoor mask-wearing has not been mandatory since mid-January, will no longer request vaccination certificates for entry into restaurants, snack bars and social clubs from Feb. 7. From Feb. 14, certificates will not be requested for access to bars, gyms, spas, pools, cinemas and theatres. After France's decision to facilitate travels with Britain, the British government as well will proceed to ease entry restrictions. All testing measures for eligible fully vaccinated travellers arriving in Britain will be scrapped from Feb. 11, as the government takes one step further to reopen the travel sector. For those that are not recognized as fully vaccinated, they will only need to take a pre-departure test and a PCR test on or before day 2 after they arrive in the country.  TOO EARLY FOR AN END Right after the French government's decision to lift certain COVID-19 restrictions, the Scientific Council in January delivered a statement that "the fifth wave with the Omicron variant is not over and its impact on the healthcare system will remain high but partially manageable until mid-March." Speaking to local media, Christian Drosten, German virologist at the Berlin-based Charite Institute of Virology, warned that there should "be no all-clear yet in Germany" given the vaccination gap. Finnish prime minister's office said on Wednesday that the number of COVID-19 infections nationwide remains high. The situation in some regions may still be difficult, it warned, with many unvaccinated people largely exposed to the danger of being infected. While Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson said "it's time for Sweden to open up again," Fredrik Elgh, a virology professor at Umea University, told Swedish Television the decision was premature. "The climbing curve of admissions of COVID-19 patients indicates that we should not do this," he said, adding that it is hard to grasp the number of new infections when testing capacity has hit the ceiling. Belgian health expert Erika Vlieghe, president of the Group of Experts on crisis strategy for COVID-19 (GEMS), said that it was still too early to suggest a close end of the pandemic. Meanwhile, Belgium has seen various demonstrations in recent weeks against health measures aimed at curbing the spread of COVID-19. Although new infections rates are stabilizing in most regions of Greece, experts noted that people should be cautious for new, possibly more dangerous variants in the future. Dimosthenis Sarigiannis, a professor at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki told local media that in mid-Feb the country will expect a new spike in cases. Speaking of the case of Britain, Prof. Francois Balloux, specialized in computational systems biology, said that "an overly fast return to pre-pandemic behaviour could lead to viral flares ... and may risk further delaying the return to 'post-pandemic normal.'"  ■