KUALA LUMPUR, July 5 (Xinhua) -- Malaysia Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob on Tuesday urged closer international cooperation to ensure a prosperous and inclusive future as the global community grapples with continued challenges and instability. Ismail Sabri also called on countries to view themselves as part of a "global family" in order to face climate change, conflicts and the resulting humanitarian problems they cause, during his keynote address at the 35th Asia-Pacific Roundtable (APR) via a pre-recorded video. "In Europe, for example, we are witnessing conflicts that have a devastating impact, not only on the people of the countries involved but also around the world," he said. "Hence, it is paramount for the world community to intensify efforts and preparations in the face of uncertainty and work together towards a more peaceful, progressive, inclusive and prosperous future," he added. Ismail Sabri also commended the key role China has played in the Asia-Pacific region, highlighting the economic benefits that the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) has reaped through close cooperation with the economic powerhouse. "The importance of China in the region is undeniable and since 2009 the country has remained a major trading partner of ASEAN. In 2020, ASEAN overtook the European Union as China's main trading partner. Looking at China's economy and strategic position, ASEAN hopes to maintain a positive and stable relationship with Beijing," he said. The Asia-Pacific Roundtable (APR) is the signature international conference of the Institute of Strategic and International Studies (ISIS) Malaysia. Chinese Ambassador to Malaysia Ouyang Yujing said the world economy still faces strong headwinds on its path towards recovery and is tested by the backlash against economic globalization. "At such a critical time when cooperation and coordination are more important than ever, some countries resort to unilateralism, protectionism and even bullying, just for the so-called sake of safeguarding their own interest, which actually adds to the risks and uncertainties in the world economy," he said. Ouyang also criticized the mindset of certain countries claiming to advocate the principles of free and open trade only when their factories are at the top of the global supply chains. Should they feel any loss of their advantages, they immediately resort to protectionism at the cost of undermining the global economic ecology, he said. "No matter how the world changes, China keeps to the belief that economic globalization is the internal requirement of productivity development which represents an unstoppable trend of history. No country can progress in isolation from the international market. Anyone who attempts to turn back the wheel of history by blocking others' way will only end up blocking himself," he said. ISIS chief executive Herizal Hazri echoed the sentiment and urged countries to cooperate in a way that benefited each other especially as the world seeks to move on from the pandemic and towards economic revival and growth. "As countries begin to open up and diplomacy is conducted face-to-face again, cooperation gives us reason to hope that the spirit of competition may be tempered by time-tested relationships. Indeed competition need not be a dirty word as long as it is balanced by sustained cooperation," he said.  ■