 Tourists visit a stall at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)  Tourists visit a stall at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)  Actors dressed in medieval style costumes perform scenes of life in medieval Turku at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)  Musicians dressed in medieval costumes perform at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)  Stall owners dressed in medieval style costumes are seen at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)  A tourist visits a stall at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)  Tourists taste drinks at the annual Medieval Market in Turku, Finland, June 30, 2022. The annual Medieval Market, one of the largest historical events in Finland, kicked off on Thursday. Visitors enjoy a robust medieval atmosphere with stall owners and actors dressed in medieval style costumes at the market. (Xinhua/Chen Jing)