 U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin (Front) attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 funding request and budget justification for the Department of Defense" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Win McNamee/Pool via Xinhua)  U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 funding request and budget justification for the Department of Defense" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Amanda Andrade-Rhoades/Pool via Xinhua)  U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 funding request and budget justification for the Department of Defense" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Amanda Andrade-Rhoades/Pool via Xinhua)  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A Review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 Funding Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua)  U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 funding request and budget justification for the Department of Defense" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Win McNamee/Pool via Xinhua)  U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 funding request and budget justification for the Department of Defense" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Win McNamee/Pool via Xinhua)  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A Review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 Funding Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua)  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A Review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 Funding Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua)  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A Review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 Funding Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua)  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A Review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 Funding Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua)  NASA Administrator Bill Nelson (3rd R) attends a subcommittee hearing of U.S. Senate Appropriations Committee titled "A Review of the President's Fiscal Year 2023 Funding Request for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and the National Science Foundation" on Capitol Hill in Washington, D.C., the United States, on May 3, 2022. (Photo by Ting Shen/Xinhua)