ADDIS ABABA, May 25 (Xinhua) -- The Ethiopian government on Wednesday commended Chinese companies for their corporate social responsibility endeavors in the East African country. The statement was made by Yasmin Wohabrebbi, Deputy Mayor of Ethiopia's capital, Addis Ababa, during the inauguration of Mekanisa Abo Link Road in Addis Ababa. The project was financed and constructed by the China Civil Engineering Construction Corporation (CCECC), as part of its corporate social responsibility endeavor. "This kind of initiative as part of the social corporate responsibility of international companies, like CCECC, is something that the government really encourages because all development can not be managed by the government only," Wohabrebbi said. The deputy mayor said the government encourages private sector engagement by other international companies to engage in similar activities as it will propel the socio-economic development aspirations of the country. "Over the last three or four years a lot has happened in Ethiopia where the corporate social responsibility engagement has increased," she said. The deputy mayor noted that the newly inaugurated link road by CCECC would play an important role in the betterment of the local community's day-to-day livelihood. According to figures from the local district administration, the newly inaugurated Mekanisa Abo Link Road would serve about 30,000 residents, eventually improving their connectivity and livelihood. Yang Yihang, Minister Counselor for Economic and Commercial Affairs of the Chinese Embassy in Ethiopia, on his part encouraged Chinese companies operating in Ethiopia to further strengthen their corporate social responsibility and contribute to the betterment of people's livelihood in Ethiopia. "The CCECC together with many other Chinese companies have actively fulfilled their social responsibilities and made contributions to infrastructure construction, training local employees, creating jobs, and improving people's livelihood in Ethiopia," Yang said. Guo Chongfeng, general manager of CCECC Ethiopian branch, said the company seeks to improve the lives of Ethiopian communities as part of its engagements in the East African country. "Ethiopia is where we develop, Ethiopian prosperity is what we wish for, and Ethiopian people are who we care about. While improving the infrastructure condition in Africa, CCECC always fulfills the social responsibilities to Ethiopia," he said. Guo said accomplishing social responsibilities "remains one of our priorities all the time as we repair roads, renovate schools, build water facilities, and make donations to local communities and schools."  ■