NEW DELHI, May 1 (Xinhua) -- Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi will leave early on Monday for a tour to three European nations, namely Germany, Denmark and France, announced Foreign Secretary Vinay Mohan Kwatra on Sunday. This will be Modi's first overseas visit this year. "PM will share India's perspective on Ukraine during his three-nation tour," said Kwatra. "India's stance over the Russia-Ukraine war has been quite clear. We have always maintained that there should be cessation of hostilities in Ukraine, and that the path to the resolution goes through diplomacy and dialogue," Kwatra said. In his statement prior to his departure, Modi said that his visit to Europe comes at a time when the region "faces many challenges and choices." "Through my engagements, I intend to strengthen the spirit of cooperation with our European partners, who are important companions in India's quest for peace and prosperity," he said. Modi will be visiting Berlin on May 2 at the invitation of Chancellor of Germany Olaf Scholz. "I will travel to Copenhagen, Denmark from May 3-4 at the invitation of Denmark Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen to hold bilateral engagements and also participate in the Second India-Nordic Summit. On the way back to India, I will make a brief stopover in Paris for a meeting with President of France Emmanuel Macron," added the Indian prime minister in his statement. In Denmark Modi will take part in the second India-Nordic Summit along with prime ministers of Denmark, Iceland, Finland, Sweden and Norway. "We will take stock of our cooperation since the First India-Nordic Summit in 2018," said Modi. The India-Nordic Summit will focus on subjects like post-pandemic economic recovery, climate change, innovation and technology, renewable energy, the evolving global security scenario and India-Nordic cooperation in the Arctic region. On the sidelines of the summit, Modi will also meet with leaders of the other four Nordic countries and review the progress in India's bilateral relations with them. Nordic countries are important partners for India in sustainability, renewable energy, digitization and innovation, Modi said, adding "The visit will help in expanding our multifaceted cooperation with the Nordic region."  ■