KIGALI, May 28 (Xinhua) -- In several spots in Rwanda, white tents where COVID-19 tests used to be conducted have disappeared. The testing site at Camp Kigali was closed on May 20, 2022. PCR testing previously conducted there continues to be performed at Gikondo Rwanda Biomedical Center site, while the antigen rapid tests are now performed at various health facilities. A return to normality is visible with residents moving without face masks for the first time since 2020 in a country that has been praised for strictly enforcing preventive measures since recording its first COVID-19 case in March 2020. Rwanda has seen COVID-19 infection rates drastically drop since last December, thanks to a high vaccination effort. More than 7.9 million Rwandans, equivalent to 61 percent of the country's population, were fully vaccinated against COVID-19 as of March 10. "We have been able to keep COVID-19 positivity rate under 1 percent for about four months now. The last time we had over 1 percent was on January 29," Julien Niyingabira, the Ministry of Health spokesperson told Xinhua. "Even when we had a fourth wave [in December] driven by highly infectious Omicron variant we didn't have many severe and death cases because many were vaccinated." Rwanda has recorded an accumulated case log of roughly 130,000 confirmed cases as of May 25 with related fatalities stagnating at 1,459. In the past week, 68 cases were recorded with an infection rate of 0.2 percent. More than 9 million people have received the first dose of COVID-19 vaccination while 8.5 million have received the second dose as of May 25, according to Ministry of Health daily updates. At least 4.6 million people had received the booster jab by May 25. Successful hosting in Kigali of mega-events such as the global Sustainable Energy for All Forum and the Basketball Africa League (BAL) playoffs and finals under limited but effective restrictions, and the opening of land borders are moves toward a return to normal, according to Niyingabira. The Ministry of Health latest daily case updates show positive COVID-19 cases have been ranging between 9 and 15 in recent days. "The good thing is that there are no severe cases as all the patients are treated under home-based care and followed up by healthcare providers. The general picture is very positive that all the efforts of the government including vaccination and strict enforcement of preventive measures bear good fruits," added Niyingabira. He said Rwanda learned a number of valuable lessons from the COVID-19 pandemic, including the necessity of building capacity for home-based care as well as enhancing collaboration in the health sector. The government also made investments to increase oxygen production in health facilities, expand Intensive Care Units in provincial hospitals, construct a national referral COVID-19 treatment center and enhance the drugs and commodities supply chain, according to the Ministry of Health. Emboldened by the experience of containing COVID-19, government officials are now thinking about what comes next. The government this month announced an additional 250 million U.S. dollars for the Economic Recovery Fund as part of the country's efforts to support the recovery of businesses severely hit by the COVID-19 pandemic. Rwanda also made deliberate efforts to invest resources aimed at increasing and decentralizing diagnostic capabilities. Genomic sequencing is now effective for national surveillance of variants of concern, while PCR tests are done across hospitals and rapid tests in all health facilities, according to Ngamije. However, Niyingabira underlined that even though the country's new infection rate remains low from tests conducted on a daily basis, the pandemic is far from over. "The more people move, the more the risk of exposure to waves of infections. Even when the mask mandate was lifted, the government encourages people to wear face masks in gatherings in enclosed places, and follow other COVID protocols," he said.  ■