 Artists perform during an event to mark World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development at Uganda National Cultural Center in Kampala, Uganda, on May 21, 2022. World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is observed annually on May 21 to highlight not only the richness of the world's cultures, but also the essential role of intercultural dialogue for achieving peace and sustainable development. (Photo by Nicholas Kajoba/Xinhua)  A visitor takes photos of a painting during an event to mark World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development at Uganda National Cultural Center in Kampala, Uganda, on May 21, 2022. World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is observed annually on May 21 to highlight not only the richness of the world's cultures, but also the essential role of intercultural dialogue for achieving peace and sustainable development. (Photo by Nicholas Kajoba/Xinhua)  Visitors play a board game popularly known as Omweso during an event to mark World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development at Uganda National Cultural Center in Kampala, Uganda, on May 21, 2022. World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is observed annually on May 21 to highlight not only the richness of the world's cultures, but also the essential role of intercultural dialogue for achieving peace and sustainable development. (Photo by Nicholas Kajoba/Xinhua)  An artist performs during an event to mark World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development at Uganda National Cultural Center in Kampala, Uganda, on May 21, 2022. World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is observed annually on May 21 to highlight not only the richness of the world's cultures, but also the essential role of intercultural dialogue for achieving peace and sustainable development. (Photo by Nicholas Kajoba/Xinhua)  An artist works on a painting during an event to mark World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development at Uganda National Cultural Center in Kampala, Uganda, on May 21, 2022. World Day for Cultural Diversity for Dialogue and Development is observed annually on May 21 to highlight not only the richness of the world's cultures, but also the essential role of intercultural dialogue for achieving peace and sustainable development. (Photo by Nicholas Kajoba/Xinhua)