TOKYO, May 17 (Xinhua) -- Tokyo stocks closed higher on Tuesday as an overnight rise in crude oil futures sent energy issues higher, with stocks broadly exposed to Chinese markets advancing on optimism that COVID-19 restrictions will be eased in Shanghai. The 225-issue Nikkei Stock Average added 112.70 points, or 0.42 percent, from Monday to close the day at 26,659.75. The broader Topix index, meanwhile, gained 3.45 points, or 0.19 percent, to finish at 1,866.71. Dealers here said that energy-oriented stocks led gains following crude oil futures rallying overnight, with the benchmark West Texas Intermediate crude oil futures contract for June closing at 114.20 U.S. dollars per barrel. This marked the highest closing level since late March. The market mood continued to be buoyed by Shanghai's vice mayor saying the previous day that the major commercial hub aims to fully restore in June the normal order of production and life across the Chinese city with standard epidemic prevention and control measures. Some dealers said that investors were still wary about the pace of global inflation and the U.S. Federal Reserve's aggressive policy moves of late. "It has been difficult for investors to actively buy shares at a time when they expect the Fed to decide on the further tightening of its monetary policy to tame inflation," Norihiro Fujito, senior investment strategist at Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., was quoted as saying. All eyes will be on Fed chair Jerome Powell's remarks at an event overnight as to hints on the Fed's future rate hikes, brokers here said. They added upcoming U.S. retail sales data for April was also being keenly eyed by investors as a clue as to how U.S. consumers are coping with prices driven up by inflation. By the close of play, mining, marine transportation, and oil and coal product issues comprised those that gained the most, and issues that rose outpaced those that fell by 1,019 to 760 on the Prime Market, while 58 ended the day unchanged. Energy issues finding favor included Eneos Holdings adding 3.2 percent, while oil exploration giant Inpex climbed 5.6 percent by the close. Fast retailing, the owner of casual clothing chain Uniqlo, gained 0.7 percent on hopes of improved business in China with COVID-19 restrictions easing in Shanghai next month, while department store operator Isetan Mitsukoshi Holdings leapt 5.3 percent. Recruit Holdings was a notable winner Tuesday, adding 2.0 percent, after the staffing service provider released an earnings outlook that came in ahead of median analysts' expectations. But brewer Asahi Group Holdings tumbled 10.9 percent, however, after reporting its quarterly operating profit had tumbled 83 percent. Kirin Holdings, for its part, closed 4.2 percent lower. On the Prime Market on Tuesday, 1,320.98 million shares changed hands, dropping from Monday's volume of 1,500.49 million shares. The turnover on the second trading day of the week came to 2,819.02 billion yen (21.78 billion U.S. dollars).  ■