SYDNEY, May 5 (Xinhua) -- Researchers from the Baker Heart and Diabetes Institute, have released a new study that shows people living in poorer areas are less likely to get optimal treatment after suffering a heart attack, pointing to larger health inequalities in Australia. The study, published in the Journal of Epidemiology and Community Health on Thursday, followed 43,000 people in the Australian state of Victoria for over 30 years who were admitted to hospital due to a heart attack. Lead researcher on the study, Jedidiah Morton from the Baker Institute, told Xinhua that four out of five people in richer areas would receive two key treatments when presenting with a heart attack, the treatments that people from worse-off areas were six percent less likely to receive. "It's a small absolute difference, but in relative terms, across the country, potentially thousands of people over a long time period who miss out on these treatments." It also found people from disadvantaged areas were more likely to be readmitted or die following their heart attack. The socioeconomic area people in the study came from was determined using data from the Australian Bureau of Statistics' Socio-Economic Indexes for Areas, which ranks areas across Australia according to a broad range of outcomes. Morton said this measure not only included income but also educational levels, access to education and employment opportunities, all factors that could contribute to poorer health access. "People who are from lower socioeconomic backgrounds are going to be younger when they get there, they're going to present with the disease early, or they're going to have more severe disease and presentation, all these extra things." And while it has been well established that one's socioeconomic factors have a variety of impacts on health outcomes, from diet to work instability, and healthcare access, Morton hoped this study would reveal this issue in new focus. "It's an injustice to have any sort of disparity like this in our society, especially in health care outcomes." "This study raised important questions about health equity and the need to do better for Australians living in more disadvantaged areas."  ■