 French Higher Education and Research Minister Sylvie Retailleau arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Minister of Sports and Olympic and Paralympic Games Amelie Oudea-Castera arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French State Secretary for the Sea Justine Benin arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Overseas Minister Yael Braun-Pivet arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at the Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Interior Minister Gerald Darmanin arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French European and Foreign Affairs Minister Catherine Colonna arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Health and Prevention Minister Brigitte Bourguignon arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Justice Minister Eric Dupond-Moretti arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Minister for Economy and Finance Bruno Le Maire arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state.  The new French Prime Minister Elisabeth Borne arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Education and Youth Minister Pap Ndiaye arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Defence Minister Sebastien Lecornu arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)  French Culture Minister Rima Abdul-Malak arrives for the first weekly cabinet meeting of the new cabinet at The Elysee Presidential Palace in Paris, France, on May 23, 2022. French President Emmanuel Macron appointed on Friday ministers for the new government of the country. In total the new government has 27 members with 17 ministries, six ministries delegates and four secretaries of state. (Xinhua/Gao Jing)