 German Chancellor Olaf Scholz delivers a speech at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)  Artists perform at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)  Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa delivers a speech at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)  German Chancellor Olaf Scholz delivers a speech at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)  Portuguese Prime Minister Antonio Costa delivers a speech at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)  German Chancellor Olaf Scholz delivers a speech at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)  Artists perform at the opening ceremony of Hannover Messe (Hanover Fair) in Hanover, Germany, May 29, 2022. The opening ceremony of Hannover Messe, Germany's important industrial trade fair, was held here on Sunday evening. After an interval of two-year, Hannover Messe resumed its offline events this year with "Industrial Transformation" as the lead theme, which focuses on digitalization and sustainability. (Xinhua/Ren Pengfei)